Misc. Criminal Case No.1896 of 2003 P.K. Roy Vs. State of Chhattisgarh and others

IN THE COURT OF CHHATTISGARH AT BILASPUR        

       Misc. Criminal Case No.1896 of 2003

       P.K. Roy
                                            ...Petitioners
                  Versus

       State of Chhattisgarh and others
                                            ...Respondents

!       Mr. Upendra Bharat, Advocate: For the applicant

^       Mr.   Praveen  Das,  Panel  Lawyer: For the State/respondent No.1
        Mr.  Kishore Bhaduri, Advocate: For respondents 2 &amp; 3

       Hon'ble Shri Justice L.C. Bhadoo


       Dated: 05/01/2004


:       ORDER


                          O R D E R
                (Passed on 5th January, 2004)

  1.   The applicant has moved this petition under Section 439
     (2) of the Cr.P.C. for cancellation of order granting regular
     bail to respondents 2 &amp; 3 by the Chief Judicial Magistrate,
     Bilaspur, vide order dated 28.07.2003.

  2.    Facts leading to filing of this petition are that the
     applicant's  daughter  namely, Sangeeta's  marriage  was
     solemnized with respondent No.2 Animesh Bhattacharya  on 
     12.12.2000.  Respondent No.3 is mother of respondent No.2.
     On 08.01.2003 Sangeeta died of asphyxia on account of hanging
     by neck while she was residing with respondent No.2 at his
     residence and it is said that three anti-mortem injuries were
     found on the body of deceased Sangeeta.  When the applicant,
     who is father of Sangeeta, came to know about this fact, he
     immediately rushed to Bajaj Nursing Home, Bilaspur, where
     respondent  No.2 had taken Sangeeta for  treatment.   On
     reaching the nursing home he found that Sangeeta's body was
     lying in the auto rickshaw and Bajaj Nursing Home refused to
     admit  Sangeeta, thereafter, the body was taken  to  the
     Government Hospital where, the doctor declared her brought
     dead.  The applicant at about 10.30 p.m. on the same day
     lodged a report in the Police Station: Tarbahar, Bilaspur,
     with the allegations that Sangeeta has committed suicide on
     account of harassment and physical torture by accused persons
     for bringing dowry and to meet the demand of Rs.1,00,000/- of
     accused persons for the purpose of starting business  of
     brother-in-law of respondent No.2.

  3.   Accordingly, a case Crime No.13/2003 under Sections 498-
     A &amp; 306 read with Section 34 of the I.P.C. was registered.
     During  the  investigation, respondents 2 &amp; 3  moved  an
     application  for anticipatory bail before the  Court  of
     Sessions Judge, Bilaspur.  As the Sessions Judge, Bilaspur
     was on leave that application was taken up and heard by the
     4th Additional Sessions Judge, Bilaspur and after hearing the
     parties, he disposed of that bail application vide order
     dated  07.06.2003  and allowed the bail  application  of
     respondents 2 &amp; 3 and they were directed to be released on
     anticipatory bail on their furnishing a personal bond to the
     tune of Rs.8,000/- each and a surety in the likewise amount
     to the satisfaction of the Police Officer, against which the
     applicant moved an application for cancellation of  bail
     granted to respondents 2 &amp; 3, but the same was dismissed by
     the  4th  Additional  Sessions Judge  vide  order  dated
     23.07.2003.  When after completion of the investigation,
     charge sheet was filed by the Police against the accused
     persons  in the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate,  the
     learned C.J.M. vide order dated 28.07.2003 granted regular
     bail to respondents 2 &amp; 3 mentioning therein that the bail
     has already been ordered by the 4th Additional Sessions Judge
     on 07.06.2003.  The applicant again moved the learned C.J.M.
     under Section 437 (5) of the Cr.P.C. for cancellation of
     bail, but vide order dated 02.08.2003, the learned C.J.M.
     rejected that application also.

  4.   Notices of this application were issued to the State and
     respondents  2  &amp;  3 and they are represented  by  their
     respective counsel.  I have heard the learned counsel for the
     parties.

  5.   Learned counsel for the applicant argued that as per the
     facts of the case, as applicant's daughter Sangeeta died
     within  two years from the date of marriage in unnatural
     circumstances by committing suicide on account of harassment
     and physical torture and cruelty, therefore, prima facie
     offence  under Section 304-B of the I.P.C. was made  out
     instead of offences under Sections 498-A &amp; 306 of the I.P.C.
     Therefore, order of the learned C.J.M. is perverse, as such
     the bail should be cancelled.  He further argued that the
     ground taken by the C.J.M. that bail has already been granted
     by the learned 4th Additional Sessions Judge is not legal and
     on the contrary, the learned C.J.M. after filing the charge
     sheet ought to have considered the material on record and he
     should have decided the bail application on the merits of the
     case  based  on  the  material available  on  record  as
     anticipatory bail could have been granted only till  the
     filing of the charge sheet.

  6.   On the other hand, the learned counsel for respondents 2
     &amp; 3 submitted that the learned 4th Additional Sessions Judge
     granted bail after perusal of the material available  on
     record and based on the evidence of the prosecution.  The
     applicant  himself and the mother, sister and  uncle  of
     deceased Sangeeta in their second statements under Section
     161 of the Cr.P.C. specifically mentioned that no demand of
     dowry was made by respondents 2 &amp; 3 and Sangeeta was happy at  
     her  matrimonial  house and she was never  subjected  to
     harassment and cruelty.  Therefore, the witnesses changed
     their statements, which were made by them at the time of
     registration of the case.  However, statements of  these
     witnesses were again recorded in which they reverted back to
     their original statements.  Moreover, the applicant himself
     filed an affidavit showing that no demand of dowry was made
     by the accused persons and he said that he has taken all the
     ornaments of her daughter, therefore, the learned Additional
     Sessions Judge had rightly allowed the bail application of
     respondents 2 &amp; 3.  Learned counsel for respondents 2 &amp; 3
     further  argued that since the order passed by  the  4th
     Additional Sessions Judge was not for a particular period,
     therefore, order of the C.J.M. is valid.  He further argued
     that order of the C.J.M. is based on the order passed by the
     learned 4th Additional Sessions Judge and the applicant has
     not challenged the order of cancellation of bail order passed
     by the 4th Additional Sessions Judge.  Therefore, on this
     ground only this application deserves to be dismissed.

  7.   In the case of Delhi Admn. vs. Sanjay Gandhi reported in
     AIR 1978 SC 961, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that "rejection
     of bail when bail is applied for is one thing, cancellation
     of bail already granted is quite another.  It is easier to
     reject a bail application in a non-bailable case than to
     cancel a bail granted in such a case.  Cancellation of bail
     necessarily involves the review of a decision already made
     and can by and large be permitted only if, by reason  of
     supervening circumstances.  It would no longer conducive to a
     fair trial to allow the accused to retain his freedom during
     the trial."  As per the settled law, bail granted to accused
     person can be cancelled either on the breach of conditions of
     bail order or misuse of liberty by the accused persons.  As
     has been held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Puran
     vs. Rambilas and another reported in (2001) 6 S.C.C. 338,
     even the bail can be cancelled if the order granting bail is
     perverse and contrary to the principles of law.

  8.   Looking to the above law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex
     Court, if we look into the facts of the present case, the
     applicant reported the matter on 07.01.2003 to the Police
     Station: Tarbahar on the ground that his daughter committed
     suicide because respondents 2 &amp; 3 were demanding clothes and 
     cash  and for that purpose they were subjecting  her  to
     cruelty.  This version was supported by the applicant and
     uncle  of  the  deceased namely, Sameer Kumar  in  their
     statements dated 08.01.2003.  But the applicant gave second
     statement on 17.01.2003 in which he resiled from the previous
     statement dated 08.01.2003 and stated that he  gave  the
     statement dated 08.01.2003 because his mental condition was
     not perfect, in fact his son-in-law, his mother and sister
     had never demanded any dowry and they never subjected his
     daughter to cruelty, but again he changed his statement on
     11.06.2003 and supported his earlier statement.  Similarly,
     Sameer Kumar Rai gave three statements and in the second 
     statement  he  resiled from his previous statement.   On
     17.01.2003, mother of deceased Sangeeta stated that  her
     daughter and son-in-law were leading peaceful life and there
     were  cordial  relations between them, why her  daughter
     committed suicide she does not know, but she used to get
     angry on small matters.  Therefore, the learned Additional
     Sessions Judge mentioned that the witnesses are changing
     their versions, hence, it is a fit case in which respondents
     2  &amp; 3 should be extended the benefit of bail.  Even  an
     affidavit was sworn by the applicant on a stamp paper of
     Rs.50/- and an agreement was also executed by him in which he
     stated  that he has taken back all the ornaments of  his
     daughter.  Therefore, the learned Additional Sessions Judge
     refused  to  cancel the bail also.  The third  statement
     reverting  back to original version was given  by  these
     witnesses after grant of bail to the accused persons  on
     07.06.2003.

  9.   Therefore, in the given situation, I am of the opinion
     that when the parents and relatives of deceased Sangeeta
     themselves had changed their statements and they had stated
     that Sangeeta and accused persons were maintaining cordial
     relations between themselves and the accused persons had
     never demanded dowry, relying upon these statements the 4th
     Additional Sessions Judge passed the order, therefore, it
     cannot be inferred that the order is perverse or contrary to
     law.
10.  At the time of granting of bail by the 4th Additional
Sessions Judge on 07.06.2003, the third statement of the
witnesses were not on record.  Only the first statement in
which they have supported the prosecution case and the second 
statement dated 17th to 20th of January, 2003 were on record
in which they resiled from the previous statement and said
that the accused persons had not demanded dowry and they had   
not tortured deceased Sangeeta.  Based on that the learned
Additional Sessions Judge granted bail.  However, after
granting of bail on 07.06.2003, these witnesses again took
summersault on 11.06.2003 and reverted back to the original
position and gave their statements supporting the earlier
statements recorded on 8th January, 2003.  On the date of
granting of bail these statements were not before the learned
Additional Sessions Judge and after granting of bail on a
changed version of the witnesses, in my opinion it was not
safe to cancel the bail because these witnesses changed their
version twice.  As has been held by the Hon'ble Apex Court,
rejection of bail when bail is applied for is one thing,
cancellation of bail already granted is quite another, and it
is easier to reject a bail than to cancel a bail granted in
such a case.  As has been held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in
the case of Aslam Babalal Desai vs. State of Maharashtra
reported in AIR 1993 S.C. 1,

          "the  grounds for cancellation of bail  under
          Sections  437  (5) &amp; 439 (2)  are  identical,
          namely, bail granted under Section 437 (1) or
          (2) or 439 (1) can be cancelled where (i) the
          accused  misuses his liberty by indulging  in
          similar  criminal activity,  (ii)  interferes
          with   the  course  of  investigation,  (iii)
          attempts   to   tamper   with   evidence   of
          witnesses,   (iv)  threatens   witnesses   or
          indulges  in  similar activities which  would
          hamper  smooth investigation,  (v)  there  is
          likelihood of his fleeing to another country,
          (vi) attempts to make himself scarce by going
          underground  or becoming unavailable  to  the
          investigating agency, (vii) attempts to place
          himself beyond the reach of his surety, etc."

     In  the  circumstances, the order granting bail is  not
     perverse  and in view of the above principle laid  down
     by  the  Hon'ble Apex Court, I do not find that any  of
     the  grounds mentioned above exist in the present  case
     for cancellation of bail.

  11.  Now, coming to the second question that in this case the
     learned 4th Additional Sessions Judge granted bail to the
     respondents in the mode of regular bail and the learned 4th
     Additional Sessions Judge has not granted anticipatory bail
     for limited duration, as has been held by the Hon'ble Apex
     Court in the case of Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh vs. State of
     Masharashtra reported in (1996) 1 Supreme Court Cases 667
     that,

          "Anticipatory bail is granted in anticipation
          of  arrest  in non-bailable cases,  but  that
          does  not mean that the regular court,  which
          is  to  try  the offender, is  sought  to  be
          bypassed and that is the reason why the  High
          Court  very rightly fixed the outer date  for
          the  continuance of the bail and on  date  of
          its  expiry directed the petitioner  to  move
          the  regular  court for bail.   That  is  the
          correct produce to follow because it must  be
          realised  that when the Court of  Session  or
          the High Court is granting anticipatory bail,
          it   is   granted   at  a  stage   when   the
          investigation  is incomplete and,  therefore,
          it  is  not  informed  about  the  nature  of
          evidence  against the alleged  offender.   It
          is,    therefore,   necessary    that    such
          anticipatory  bail  orders  should  be  of  a
          limited duration only and ordinarily  on  the
          expiry  of that duration or extended duration
          the  court granting anticipatory bail  should
          leave  it  to the regular court to deal  with
          the  matter  on an appreciation  of  evidence
          placed before it after the investigation  has
          made   progress   or  the   charge-sheet   is
          submitted."

     Therefore, in view of the law laid down by the  Hon'ble
     Apex Court, the learned Additional Sessions Judge ought
     to have granted bail for a limited period and he should
     have left the accused persons to approach regular court
     for grant of regular bail before expiry of that limited
     period.   While granting anticipatory bail the  correct
     approach for the learned 4th Additional Sessions  Judge
     was as laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the above
     matter.

  12.   In the present case, the learned Additional Sessions
     Judge while granting bail under Section 438 (1) of  the
     Cr.P.C.  had  not  granted bail for  limited  duration.
     Therefore, the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate was right in
     granting regular bail based on the order of bail passed by
     the Additional Sessions Judge on 07.06.2003 and for this, I
     am fortified by the decision of Madhya Pradesh High Court in
     the  matter of B.L. Verma and others vs. State of  M.P.
     reported in 1979 JLJ 419, in which it has been held  in
     paragraphs 18 &amp; 19 of the order that,

          "18.  In  this  view of the  matter,  it  can
          safely  be  said that the moment a person  is
          released  on bail after arrest in  compliance
          with  the  directions contained in the  order
          passed u/s 438, it would be deemed as  if  it
          was  a bail granted under sub section (1)  of
          section  437, and therefore, it shall  be  in
          operation  until cancelled by  the  Court  in
          accordance  with the provisions contained  in
          sub-section   (5)  of  section   437.    This
          conclusion gets buttressed from the provision
          contained  in sub-section (2) of section  439
          of the Code which reads as under: -

               "439.  Special powers of High Court
               or Court of session regarding bail.
               **          **        **        **

               (2)     A  High  Court or Court  of
                 session   may  direct  that   any
                 person  who has been released  on
                 bail   under   this  chapter   be
                 arrested   and  commit   him   to
                 custody."

                         (Emphasis supplied by me)

               This  view,  that once when it  is  held
          that   the  person  released  on  bail  under
          section  438  would be deemed  to  have  been
          released  on  bail under sub-section  (1)  of
          section  437,  his bail cannot  be  cancelled
          except  an  specific order under  sub-section
          (5)  of  section 437, gets support  from  the
          decision  of  their Lordships of the  Supreme
          Court  in  Bashir  and  others  v.  State  of
          Haryana [1].

          19.   The  upshot of the foregoing discussion
          is that the bail of a person bailed out under
          an  order  under section 438 would not  stand
          cancelled  or  cannot  be  cancelled   by   a
          Magistrate merely on the ground that a charge
          sheet  has been filed.  It shall remain valid
          until  the conclusion of the trial unless  it
          is  cancelled by an appropriate  Court  under
          section 437 (5) or 439 (2)."

     Therefore,  in view of the above since the  bail  order
     passed   by  the  4th  Additional  Sessions  Judge   on
     07.06.2003 under Section 438 (1) of the Cr.P.C. was not
     for  a limited period until the filing of charge sheet,
     the  impugned order granting bail by the Chief Judicial
     Magistrate  based  on the order of Additional  Sessions
     Judge  dated 07.06.2003 was not illegal or perverse  or
     contrary to law.

  13.   A  point  has been raised by the learned counsel  for
     respondents 2 &amp; 3 that the applicant has not challenged the
     order of the Additional Sessions Judge granting bail and
     rejecting the application of the applicant for cancellation
     of bail and the order passed by the C.J.M. is based on that
     order, therefore, unless the order passed by the A.D.J. is
     challenged the impugned order cannot be challenged.  I find
     substance in this argument.  Previously the applicant had
     filed a petition before the High Court for challenging the
     order of the Additional Sessions Judge, but that has been
     withdrawn and the petition is dismissed as withdrawn.  In
     order to cancel the bail granted to respondents 2 &amp; 3, the
     applicant ought to have challenged the order of the A.D.J. as
     well as the C.J.M.  On this ground also this petition is not
     maintainable.

  14.   In  the  result, I do not find any substance in  this
     petition  and  the same is liable to be dismissed.   The
     petition is accordingly, dismissed.

                                                    J U D G E
                                                   05.01.2004

