

THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE G.V.SEETHAPATHY          
Criminal Revision Case No.80 OF 2005  

14-11-2007 

Smt.Jeslina Ghei 

State of A.P., Rep. by Public Prosecutor,
High Court of A.P., Hyderabad
(W.P.S. C.C.S), Hyderabad and others. 

Counsel for the Petitioner: Sri K.Sarvabhouma Rao

Counsel for the Respondents:  Public Prosecutor for R.1;
                        Sri V.Pattabhi for R-2 & 3

:JUDGMENT:   

                This criminal revision is filed seeking to assail the order dated
13-12-2004 in Crl.R.P.No.252 of 2004, on the file of the IV-Additional
Metropolitan Sessions Judge, Hyderabad, wherein the learned Sessions Judge  
allowed the revision petition and set aside the order dated 05-10-2004 in
Crl.M.P.No.3619 of 2004 in C.C.No.197 of 1997, on the file of the XXII
Metropolitan Magistrate-cum-Mahila Court, Hyderabad, wherein the said petition
filed by the prosecution under Section 311 Cr.P.C., for recall of P.W.1, was
allowed.

2.              The petitioner herein is the de facto complainant and wife of
respondent No.2 herein. She gave a complaint against respondents 2 and 3 herein
accusing them of offences under Sections 498-A and 406 IPC.  After
investigation, police filed the charge sheet against respondents 2 and 3.   The
learned Magistrate has taken cognizance of the offences under Section 498-A and
Section 6 of the Dowry Prohibition Act in C.C.No.197 of 1997.  After a chequered
career, the trial of the accused ultimately commenced. P.W.2 was originally
examined-in-chief, but her evidence was eschewed on 03-12-2003 as she did not
appear for cross-examination. The prosecution filed Crl.M.P.No.225 of 2004 under
Section 311 Cr.P.C., for recall of P.W.2.  The learned XXII Metropolitan
Magistrate by order dated 22-01-2004 allowed the said petition.  Aggrieved by
the same, the accused preferred Crl.R.P.No.48 of 2004, on the file of the VII-
Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge and the learned Sessions Judge allowed
the revision petition and set aside the order dated 22-01-2004.  The evidence of
P.W.2 thus remained off the record.  Subsequently, the prosecution filed a fresh
application Crl.M.P.No.3619 of 2004 under Section 311 Cr.P.C., for recall of
P.W.2 for fresh examination.  The said petition was allowed by the learned XXII
Metropolitan Magistrate exercising the power under Section 311 Cr.P.C., and
observed that the evidence of P.W.2, being the mother of the de facto
complainant, is essential for the purpose of prosecution case.  Aggrieved by the
same, the accused preferred revision in Crl.R.P.No.252 of 2004 and the learned
IV-Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge by order dated 13-12-2004 allowed the
said revision and set aside the order dated 05-10-2004 of the learned XXII
Metropolitan Magistrate on the ground that the earlier order in Crl.R.P.No.48 of
2004 remained unchallenged.  Aggrieved by the said order of the learned Sessions
Judge, the present revision case is filed by the de facto complainant.

3.              Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned counsel
for the respondents.  Records are perused.

4.              Respondents 2 and 3 are facing prosecution for the charges under
Sections 498-A, 406 and Section 6 of the Dowry Prohibition Act.  The mother of
the de facto complainant was examined-in-chief as P.W.2.  As she did not appear
for cross-examination, her evidence was eschewed.  On an earlier occasion, the
petition filed by the petitioner in Crl.M.P.No.225 of 2004 to recall P.W.2 was
allowed by the learned Magistrate on 22-01-2004, but the revision filed against
the  said order was allowed on the ground that as the evidence of P.W.2 was
already eschewed, nothing remained on record so as to recall her for cross-
examination.   Admittedly, the de facto complainant was not made a party to the
revision petition in Crl.R.P.No.48 of 2004.  Thus, the earlier revision petition
was allowed on the technical ground that recall of P.W.2 for cross-examination
does not arise because her evidence-in-chief was no longer available on record.
The present application Crl.M.P.No.3619 of 2004 was filed by the prosecution
under Section 311 Cr.P.C., for the purpose of recalling PW.2 and examining her
afresh.  The learned Magistrate again allowed the said petition on the ground
that the evidence of P.W.2 is essential for a just decision in the case and the
provisions of Section 311 Cr.P.C., are wide enough to meet the situation.  The
learned Sessions Judge allowed the revision petition Crl.R.P.No.252 of 2004
under the impugned order on the grounds that the earlier order in Crl.R.P.No.48
of 2003 remained unchallenged and secondly that the trial of the case is already
over delayed.  The petitioner filed Crl.R.C.No.734 of 2004 on the file of
this Court. By order dated 06-07-2004, the said criminal revision case was
permitted to be withdrawn with liberty to the petitioner to move any other
petition under law.  Subsequently, the petitioner filed Crl.M.P.No.361 of 2004.
The objection of the learned counsel for respondents 2 and 3 regarding
maintainability of the application by the de facto complainant is, therefore,
untenable in view of the fact that liberty was given to her to move any other
petition available under law while disposing of Crl.R.C.No.734 of 2004.

5.              As can be seen from the record, the de facto complainant cannot be
entirely blamed for the delay in commencement of trial as the accused have filed
criminal petitions under Section 482 Cr.P.C., for quashing of the proceedings
against them and they have filed writ petitions for the same relief
in spite of dismissal of criminal petitions filed under Section 482 Cr.P.C.  As
the third accused did not appear before the Court, the case against him was
split up.  The de facto complainant cannot, therefore, be blamed for the delay
in commencement of the trial and at any rate on that ground the application
filed by her for recall of P.W.2 cannot be rejected.  It is to be noted that the
earlier revision petition was allowed on technical ground that the question of
cross-examination does not arise because the chief-examination was not on
record.  Therefore, the present application is filed for examining P.W.2 afresh.
Allowing of the said revision on the ground that the earlier order in
Crl.R.P.No.48 of 2004 remained unchallenged is, therefore, not proper.

6.              Section 311 Cr.P.C., enables the Court at any stage
of the trial to summon any person as a witness or recall or
re-examine any person already examined and the Court shall summon and examine or   
recall and re-examine any such person if his evidence appears to it to be
essential for just decision of the case.

7.              A careful reading of the provisions of Section 311 Cr.P.C.,
discloses that it contains two parts.  The first part gives a discretionary
power to the Magistrate by using the word 'may' to summon any person as a 
witness or examine any person in attendance though not summoned as a witness or  
recall and
re-examine any person already examined. The second part mandates the Court by  
using the expression 'shall summon' and examine or recall and re-examine any
such person if his evidence appears to it to be essential for just decision of
the case.  The expression 'any such person' used in the second part relates to
the person referred in the first part.  The scope of Section 311 Cr.P.C., is
wide enough and it enables the Court to summon any person as a witness or 
examine any person in attendance though not summoned as a witness.  The Court   
can recall and re-examine any person already examined.  If the Court considers
his evidence to be essential to the just decision of the case, the Court shall
summon and examine such person or recall and re-examine such person. The section   
does not contain any prohibition or bar to examine a person as witness whose
evidence is already eschewed.  The section enables the Magistrate to recall and
re-examine any such person already examined.  Thus, when a witness is already 
examined-in-chief and also cross-examined, the Court can in exercise of its
powers under Section 311 Cr.P.C., recall and
re-examine him in-chief or in cross or both.  When that is so, there cannot be
any impediment in the way of recording the evidence of a person who was
previously examined, but his evidence was eschewed.  When once the evidence is 
eschewed, it means that the said evidence is off the record and cannot be looked
into.  There is no prohibition contained anywhere preventing such person
whose evidence is previously eschewed from being recalled or
re-examined, especially when such evidence is found to be essential for just
decision of the case.  The learned Magistrate has observed that the evidence of
P.W.2, being mother of the de facto complainant, is essential for just decision
of the case and, therefore, exercised the power under Section 311 Cr.P.C., to
recall and re-examine the said witness.  The impugned order of the learned
Sessions Judge is silent on the aspect as to whether or not the evidence of
P.W.2 is essential for just decision of the case.  The grounds on which the
revision petition was allowed as stated supra are untenable.  The order dated
05-10-2004 in Crl.M.P.No.3619 of 2004 of the learned Magistrate permitting re-
examination of P.W.2, as a fresh witness, invoking the powers under Section 311
Cr.P.C., does not suffer from any illegality or material irregularity so as to
invoke the revisional jurisdiction.  The impugned order of the learned Sessions
Judge dated 13-12-2004 in Crl.R.P.No.252 of 2004 is, therefore, set aside and
the mother of the de facto complainant is permitted to be examined as a witness.
However, having regard to the fact that the case was instituted almost 10 years
back and it has already undergone a chequered career, the learned Magistrate is
directed to dispose of the case within a period of four months from the date of
receipt of a copy of this order and both parties are directed not to adopt any
delaying tactics, and ensure expeditious disposal of the case within the above
prescribed period.

8.              In the result, the criminal revision case is allowed with the
directions as stated above.

