

THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE P.S.NARAYANA         
A.S.No.1318 of 1992 

21-06-2007 

Maddu Bhimarao  

Nellemilli Jakaraiah

Counsel for appellant : Sri Rajasekhar

Counsel for respondent : Sri D.Ramalinga Swamy  

:JUDGMENT:   

1.      Facts in brief :  The Appeal is filed as against the Judgment and Decree
made in O.S.No.211/87 on the file of I Additional Subordinate Judge,
Visakhapatnam dated 30-6-1992.  The appellant is the unsuccessful plaintiff in
the said suit.  The suit was filed for the relief of specific performance of the
contract of agreement of sale dated 23-11-1996.  The learned Judge on the
strength of the respective pleadings of the parties, having settled the Issues,
recorded the evidence of P.W.1 and D.W.1 and marked Exs.A-1 to A-7 and   Exs.B-1  
to B-10 and recorded certain reasons and ultimately came to the conclusion that
the appellant/plaintiff is not entitled to the relief of specific performance,
but directed the respondent/defendant to return Rs.15,000/- to the
appellant/plaintiff within one month from the date of decree.  Aggrieved by the
same, the unsuccessful plaintiff preferred the present Appeal.
2.      Contentions of Sri Rajasekhar :  Sri Rajasekhar, the learned Counsel
representing the appellant had pointed out to the respective pleadings of the
parties, the Issues settled and the findings recorded by the learned Judge and
would comment that virtually there is no contest at all and when the
respondent/defendant was ready and willing to execute the sale deed in stead of
putting the parties on certain Issues which in fact do not arise at all in the
facts and circumstances, the learned Judge could have proceeded under Order XV 
Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure.  The learned Counsel also had further
pointed out to the oral and documentary evidence available on record and would
contend that always the appellant/plaintiff had been ready and willing to
perform his part of the contract.  Despite the same, having recorded certain
findings in favour of the appellant/plaintiff, the learned Judge totally erred
in negativing the relief.  The learned Counsel also pointed out to the contents
of Ex.A.1 dated 23-11-1986 and would maintain that in the facts and
circumstances of the case, even to record a finding that the appellant/plaintiff
approached the Court in undue haste also cannot be sustained.  The learned
Counsel also placed reliance on certain decisions to substantiate his
submissions. 
3.      Contentions of Sri Ramalinga Swamy:  Sri Ramalinga Swamy, the learned  
Counsel representing the respondent/defendant would contend that in a suit of
this nature, the conduct of the parties to be taken into consideration.  The
respondent/defendant was hard pressed for money for the sake of family
necessities and in fact he had been prompt in obtaining all the documents i.e.,
Ex.B.3, Ex.B.4 and Ex.B.5 and had been ready and willing to execute a sale deed
but for reasons best known to the appellant/plaintiff the appellant/plaintiff
alone was not coming forward.  The learned Counsel also pointed out relating to
the fluctuating prices and would maintain that at this distant point of time if
specific performance to be ordered, the respondent/defendant would be put to
great hardship.  The learned Counsel also would maintain that in the light of
Order XLI Rule 22 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the successful party is
entitled to canvass any findings which may be in a way adverse to such party.
The learned Counsel also pointed out that when the respondent/defendant
expressed his willingness to execute the sale deed immediately, steps could have
been taken by the appellant/plaintiff by depositing the amount and obtaining the
sale deed and this conduct of postponing on the part of the appellant/plaintiff
would go to show that he was not willing to perform his part of the contract.
The Counsel also would maintain that the question is not whether the
appellant/plaintiff had sufficient funds or not, but the question is whether he
was willing to perform his part of the contract inasmuch as the learned Judge
came to the conclusion that the appellant/plaintiff was not willing to perform
his part of the contract and also taking into consideration the conduct of the
parties inasmuch as this is a discretionary relief of specific performance which
is being prayed for, the learned Judge recorded convincing reasons and
ultimately dismissed the suit for the relief of specific performance and a
direction was given to refund the amount and hence the decree granted by the
trial Court in the facts and circumstances is just and proper and the findings
being well appreciated findings on the strength of the oral and documentary
evidence available on record, the said findings not to be disturbed in this
Appeal.
4.              Heard the Counsel, perused the oral and documentary evidence 
available on record and also the findings recorded by the learned I Additional
Subordinate Judge, Visakhapatnam.  
5.              Before taking up the further discussion, it may be appropriate to
have a look at the respective pleadings of the parties :
Averments made in the plaint :  The defendant is the owner of an A.C. sheet
building situate at Resapuvanipalem of Visakhapatnam within the Municipal
Corporation limits in S.No.14, Patta No.107 measuring 222 sq. yards bearing Door
No.50-2-93/1, Assessment No.47343.  The said property is the self acquired
property of the defendant having been purchased by him under a registered sale
deed dated 4-4-1984.  It was further leaded that the defendant entered into an
agreement of sale with the plaintiff on 23-11-1986 agreeing to convey the suit
schedule site with A.C. sheet building to the plaintiff by selling the same to
the plaintiff at Rs.69,000/- and further agreeing to execute a sale deed within
three months from the date of agreement of sale at the cost of the plaintiff and
get the sale deed executed and registered.  The plaintiff paid a sum of
Rs.10,000/- as advance towards the sale transaction on the date of agreement of
sale and also paid an advance of Rs.5000/- on 7-12-1986 as per the terms of the
agreement.  The balance was agreed to be paid by the plaintiff at the time of
registration of the sale deed.  It was also agreed that the sale deed to be
executed by the defendant would be executed by him in favour of either the
plaintiff or his nominee.  The plaintiff had been demanding the defendant to
execute the sale deed in his favour and get it registered as per the terms of
the agreement of sale after getting the necessary sanction from the Urban Land
Ceiling Authority, Income Tax Clearance and other necessary documents but the 
defendant failed to execute the sale deed as agreed and had been putting off the
same on one pretext or the other.  The defendant on  22-2-1987 made an
endorsement on the agreement of sale to the effect that he could not execute the
same for unavoidable reasons by         22-2-1987 and that he would execute the
same before 30-4-1987.  The plaintiff had been always reading and willing to
perform his part of the contract by taking a sale deed and get it registered at
his expense and further prepared to pay the balance of the amount as agreed to
at the time of registration.  The plaintiff got ready with the money necessary
for the payment of balance of consideration of Rs.54,000/- as well as the stamp
and registration expenses and had been calling upon the defendant to get the
necessary sanction and also execute the sale deed as per the terms of the
agreement of sale.  It was further pleaded that as the defendant had been
putting off the execution of the sale deed and also obtaining the necessary
permission from the Urban Land Ceiling Authority the plaintiff was obliged to
make a final demand by means of a registered lawyer's notice dated 22-4-1997
calling upon the defendant to accept to the terms of the agreement of sale by
securing the necessary permission and also executing the sale deed and get it
registered and further deliver the property to the plaintiff.  The defendant
received the notice but had failed to act up to the terms of the agreement of
sale by getting the necessary permission and executing the sale deed in favour
of the plaintiff at the cost of the plaintiff.  The defendant had also failed to
reply to the notice of the plaintiff.  It was further specifically pleaded that
on account of the failure of the defendant to executing a sale deed as per the
terms of the agreement of sale, the plaintiff lost interest on the money paid as
advance as well as the money made ready by him for the purpose of taking the
sale deed as the value of the site in the locality since the agreement of sale
had gone up.  As such the plaintiff is entitled to receive from the defendant as
damages for breach of contract a sum of Rs.15,000/- already paid as advance plus
Rs.55,000/- by way of raising prices, totaling Rs.70,000/-.  Thus the suit had
been laid for a decree for specific performance of the contract of sale executed
in favour of the plaintiff by the defendant on 23-11-1986 by directing the
defendant to execute the sale deed as per the terms of the contract of sale
regarding the suit schedule property in favour of the plaintiff and put the
plaintiff in possession of the property or alternatively for recovery of damages
for breach of contract of agreement of sale from the defendant to a tune of
Rs.70,000/-.  It was also specifically pleaded that the plaintiff is prepared to
deposit balance of sale amount in case the Court were to direct the plaintiff to
do so.
Averments made in the written statement :  The respondent herein as defendant
resisted the same with the following averments. It was admitted that the
defendant is the owner of the plaint schedule property having purchased the same
under a registered sale deed dated 4-4-1984.  It was also admitted that the
defendant entered into an agreement of sale with the plaintiff on 23-11-1986
whereby he agreed to convey the suit schedule site with A.C. sheet building to
the plaintiff for a consideration of Rs.69,000/- and further agreeing to execute
sale deed within a period of three months from the date of agreement. It was
also further admitted that the plaintiff agreed to pay advance of Rs.15,000/-
out of which he paid a sum of Rs.10,000/- on the day of agreement i.e., 23-11-
1986 and paid a sum of Rs.5000/- on 7-12-1986. Though the plaintiff was to pay
the entire amount of Rs.15,000/- in lumpsum he requested the defendant to accept
the sum in two instalments as he was short of funds.  It was further pleaded
that the plaintiff agreed that the sale deed would be taken on paying balance
sale consideration within three months and that in the meanwhile the defendant
should obtain Encumbrance Certificate, Income Tax Clearance certificate and
Municipal Corporation certificate.  It was further pleaded that it is absolutely
false that the plaintiff had been demanding the defendant to execute sale deed
in his favour and get it registered as per the terms of the agreement of sale
after getting necessary sanction from the Urban Land Ceiling Authority, Income
Tax Clearance Certificate and other documents, but the defendant failed to
execute the sale deed and put off the execution on one pretext or the other.  It
was further pleaded that in fact no Urban Land Ceiling certificate is necessary
as the defendant's property is a building and not a vacant land.  The defendant
immediately after the execution of the agreement applied and obtained building
certificate from the Municipal Corporation for getting the sale deed registered
and also Encumbrance Certificate for 13 years and in so far as the Income Tax
Clearance certificate is concerned he was advised by his Auditor that as he
purchased the property on        4-4-1984 if he applies for the document within
a period of three years he has to pay heavy tax and advised him to apply for the
same after expiry of three years from the date of purchase and accordingly the
defendant informed the same to the plaintiff and on mutual agreement, the time
for execution of the sale deed was extended upto 30-4-1987.  Accordingly after
expiry of three years period the defendant applied for Income Tax Clearance
certificate on 6-4-1987 and it was issued on 7-4-1987 and that is the reason why
in the endorsement dated           22-2-1987 it was mentioned that the time was
being extended for unavoidable reasons. Immediately after obtaining the Income
Tax Clearance certificate the defendant informed the plaintiff orally twice that
he was ready and called upon him to execute the sale deed and as the plaintiff
failed to come forward to take sale deed, he also wrote a registered letter
dated 20-4-1987 which was received by the plaintiff on 21-4-1987 and thereafter
strangely he got issued legal notice dated 22-4-1987 with false and untenable
contentions blaming the defendant for not executing the sale deed and the said
notice was received by the defendant on 28-4-1987 as he was out of station from
23rd to 27th having gone to Nouduru in Bhimavaram taluk of West Godavari
District as his uncle Y.Yesuratnam fell seriously ill and passed away.  On
return to Visakhapatnam and on receiving the legal notice immediately on the
very next day the defendant got issued reply to the notice expressing his
readiness once again to execute the sale deed and called upon the plaintiff not
to unnecessarily indulge in issuing notice and made it clear that if he rushes
to a Court of law he will be doing so at his risk and responsibility and further
making it clear that if he failed to take the sale deed by 30-4-1987 the sale
agreement would stand cancelled and the advance would stand forfeited in his
favour.  However, unnecessarily the plaintiff rushed to Court and filed the suit
with false allegations. Therefore the allegations of the plaint that the
plaintiff had been always reading and willing to perform his part of the
contract by taking sale deed and got it registered at his expenses and further
prepared to pay the balance of the amount as agreed to at the time of
registration and also that he got ready with the balance sale consideration of
Rs.54,000/- as well as stamps and registration expenses and calling upon the
defendant to get the necessary sanction and execute the sale deed as per the
terms of the agreement are all false and are hereby denied and all the said
allegations are made for the purpose of the suit.  It was further specifically
pleaded that the allegation that the defendant had been putting off the
execution of the sale deed and not obtained necessary document from Urban Land 
Ceiling Authority is absolutely false and untenable since no Urban Land Ceiling
permission is necessary for the purpose of executing the sale deed.  The
allegation that the plaintiff was obliged to issue legal notice is absolutely
untenable and the allegation that the defendant failed reply to the notice of
the plaintiff is absolutely false and the allegations in the legal notice are
also false.  Further it was pleaded that the allegations that on account of
failure of the defendant to execute the sale deed as per the terms of the
agreement of sale the plaintiff lost interest on the money paid as advance as
well as money made ready by him for the purpose of taking sale deed as value of
the site in the locality since the time of agreement had gone up and as such he
is entitled to recover damages for breach of contract in a sum of Rs.15,000/-
and Rs.55,000/-, are purely speculative besides being baseless and untenable.
It was further pleaded that the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief and the
suit is mala fide in nature.  Further, the documents which were made ready by
the defendant are sufficient for taking the sale deed and the contention of the
plaintiff that Urban Land Ceiling permission is necessary for executing the sale
deed is not only incorrect but untenable and the said allegations appear to have
been made only with a view to avoid forfeiture of advance paid by the plaintiff
to the defendant for having committed breach of contract.  The plaintiff appears
to be adamant to get out of the contract as evidently he is short of funds and
therefore he invented the requirement of Urban Land Ceiling permission for the
purpose of executing the sale deed which certificate is in fact not necessary.
It was further pleaded that in spite of registered letter sent by the defendant,
after having received the same the plaintiff got issued legal notice with false
allegations and filed the suit unnecessarily with mala fide intention.  The
cause of action mentioned in the suit also is absolutely incorrect and false.
The plaintiff is not entitled to any relief as claimed in the suit either for
specific performance of the contract or for damages as claimed and prayed to
dismiss the suit with costs.
6.      Issues settled by the trial Court :
1. Whether the plaintiff is not ready with money and not willing to take the
sale deed as alleged by the defendant ?
2. Whether the defendant is ready with all documents and ready to execute the
sale deed ?
3. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for a decree against the defendant as
prayed for ?
4. To what relief ?

7.      Oral and documentary evidence available on record
Witnesses examined on behalf of plaintiff :

P.W.1 Maddu Bhimarao   

Witnesses examined on behalf of the defendant :

D.W.1 N.Jakaraiah 

Exhibits marked on behalf of the plaintiff :

Ex.A.1/23-11-1986       Agreement of sale 
Ex.A.2/22-2-1987                Endorsement of payment  
Ex.A.3/22-4-1987                Office copy of Lawyer's notice
Ex.A.4/--                       Postal receipt
Ex.A.5/--                       Photostat copy of Bank pass book 
Ex.A.6/--                       Photostat copy of Bank pass book 
Ex.A.7/--                       Photostat copy of F.D.R.

Exhibits marked on behalf of the defendant :

Ex.B.1/22-4-1987                Notice issued by the plaintiff to the
defendant
Ex.B.2/--                       Cover
Ex.B.3/22-1-1987                Property certificate
Ex.B.4/4-2-1987         Encumbrance certificate        
Ex.B.5/6-4-1987         Income-Tax Clearance Certificate        
Ex.B.6/20-4-1987                Office copy of letter
Ex.B.7/--                       Postal acknowledgement  
Ex.B.8/20-4-1987                Encumbrance certificate
Ex.B.9/29-4-1987                Office copy of notice
Ex.B.10/--                      Postal acknowledgement  

8.      Findings recorded by the trial Court in nutshell: The trial Court recorded
a positive finding while answering Issue No.1 that the evidence on record no
doubt would establish that the plaintiff was having sufficient funds to pay
balance sale consideration Ex.A-1 to the defendant at the relevant point of
time.  The learned Judge while answering Issue No.2 observed that no doubt a
comparison of Ex.B.6 signature with the admitted signature of the plaintiff is
showing that there is substantial difference between the signature in Ex.B.7 and
the admitted signature.  But the original Ex.B.6 was received by some people in
the address in which the plaintiff was residing at the relevant time on 21-4-
1987.  Whether the plaintiff received it or not, the contents of Ex.B.6 are
established and the defendant was ready and willing to perform his part of the
contract as agreed upon by him.  The trial Court while answering Issue No.3
observed that admittedly the plaintiff paid Rs.15,000/- to the defendant towards
advance under Ex.A.1 and he is entitled to receive the said amount but he is not
entitled to any interest thereupon or for any amount towards damages since the
present litigation is a direct result of the hastiness on the part of the
plaintiff in approaching the Court and ignoring the offer made by the defendant
to get the sale deed registered in May 1987 itself by paying the balance sale
consideration.  Thus the suit was dismissed relating to the relief of specific
performance but with a direction to the respondent/defendant to return
Rs.15000/- to the appellant/plaintiff within one month from the date of decree.
9.              In the light of the respective contentions advanced by the
contesting parties, the following Points arise for consideration in this Appeal:
1. Whether the trial Court is justified in negativing the relief of specific
performance having recorded certain positive findings in the facts and
circumstances of the case ?
2. If so to what relief the parties would be entitled to ?

10.     Point No.1:  The respective pleadings of the parties, the Issues settled,
the evidence available on record and the findings recorded by the trial Court
already had been specified supra.  The oral evidence available on record is that
of P.W.1, the plaintiff and D.W.1, the defendant.  For the purpose of
convenience, the parties hereinafter would be referred to as "plaintiff" and
"defendant" only as shown in O.S.No.211/87.  P.W.1 deposed in relation to all
the facts.  P.W.1 deposed that the defendant agreed to sell the property for a
sum of Rs.69,000/- for entering into an agreement of sale dated 23-11-1986 and
Ex.A.1 is the agreement of sale.  The scribe of Ex.A.1 is one A.V.R.Murthy, a
licenced document writer and attested by one Sarabandhiraju and Chekkara 
Appalaswamy.  At the outset it may be stated that the execution of Ex.A.1 is not
in serious controversy.  At the time of execution of the agreement of sale P.W.1
paid Rs.10,000/- towards sale consideration and subsequently on 7-12-1986 he
paid another sum of Rs.5000/- as per the terms of Ex.A.1.  It is also deposed
that the defendant has to execute the sale deed within three months from the
date of Ex.A.1 and the balance of sale consideration to be paid before the Sub-
Registrar.  The time stipulated under Ex.A.1 expires by 22-2-1987.  Therefore
the defendant extended time after execution of the sale deed under Ex.A.2
endorsement dated 30-4-1987 as he could not secure Income Tax Clearance   
certificate and necessary sanction from Urban Land Ceiling Authority.  P.W.1
also deposed that he was always reading and willing to perform his part of the
contract by taking a sale deed and get it registered at his expense and he was
prepared to pay the balance of sale consideration and also he was ready with the
amount necessary for the registration, but however, the defendant failed to
cooperate with him in relation to the execution of the sale deed and thus P.W.1
also deposed that he issued a notice finally on 22-4-1987 calling upon the
defendant to execute a sale deed as per the terms of Ex.A.1 agreement after
receiving the balance sale consideration. Ex.A.3 is the office copy of notice
and Ex.A.4 is the postal receipt.  In such circumstances, the plaintiff/P.W.1
was left with no other option except to file the suit for specific performance.
This witness also deposed in relation to Ex.A.5 and Ex.A.6, the Photostat copies
of the respective pass books and also the fixed deposit receipt for Rs.72,000/-
in Hindustan Shipyard Co-operative Limited, Visakhapatnam.  Ex.A.7 is the
Photostat copy of the F.D.R.  This witness was cross-examined and this witness
further explained relating to all the factual details.
11.             As against this evidence, the evidence of D.W.1 is available who had
deposed that he purchased the property on             4-4-1984 under a
registered sale deed and he purchased the same with A.C.C. sheet roof building
and he agreed to sell the plaint schedule property to the plaintiff and executed
an agreement of sale Ex.A.1.  This witness also deposed that because of his
necessity he agreed to sell the property to the plaintiff and on the date of
Ex.A.1 agreement the plaintiff paid Rs.10,000/-.  This witness also further
deposed that subsequently on 7-12-1987 the plaintiff paid another sum of
Rs.5000/- and the plaintiff agreed to pay the balance of sale consideration
within three months from the date of Ex.A.1 agreement of sale and it was
stipulated in the agreement if the plaintiff failed to pay the balance of sale
consideration and obtain sale deed in time, D.W.1 is entitled to forfeit
Rs.10,000/- advance paid at the time of Ex.A.1.  This witness also deposed that
time was fixed because the value of the property was increasing in the locality
day to day.  D.W.1 also deposed about the agreement to produce Income Tax  
Clearance certificate and further deposed that he had obtained Property
Certificate from the Municipal Corporation, Visakhapatnam and Encumbrance 
Certificate from the Sub-Registrar's Office.  Ex.B.3 is the Property Certificate
and Ex.B.4 is the Encumbrance Certificate.  He had applied to the Income Tax
Officer for Income Tax Clearance certificate.  The Income Tax officials informed
him if he applied for Income Tax Clearance certificate for the site which he
purchased within three years, he has to pay huge amount as tax and if it exceeds
three years he need not pay any tax.  Therefore the Income Tax Authorities
advised him to apply for Clearance Certificate after three years after he
purchased the property for which he entered into the agreement of sale with the
plaintiff.  D.W.1 informed the same to the plaintiff and got an endorsement
written on the reverse of Ex.A.1 extending time for registration under Ex.A.2
and the plaintiff agreed for the same.  Subsequently on 6-4-1987 he obtained
Income Tax Clearance Certificate, Ex.B.5, and then informed the plaintiff that
he obtained all the necessary documents and requested him to obtain a sale deed
after paying the balance of sale consideration.  D.W.1 further deposed that he
informed twice orally but t plaintiff was not willing to take the sale deed.
D.W.1 also deposed about addressing the letter dated             20-4-1987 by
registered post and acknowledgement due.  The office copy of the same was marked  
as Ex.B.6.  The plaintiff received the said letter under Ex.B.7 postal
acknowledgement.  The signature on Ex.B.7 is that of the plaintiff.  Again the
defendant/D.W.1 obtained Encumbrance Certificate after20-4-1987 marked as  
Ex.B.8. The cover containing Ex.B.1 notice was marked as Ex.B.2.  D.W.1 further
deposed that  instead of obtaining sale deed the plaintiff/P.W.1 got issued a
notice dated 22-4-1987 calling upon him to execute a sale deed by receiving the
balance of sale consideration and also informed through the said notice that
Urban Land Clearance Certificate also is to be obtained to get the sale deed.
D.W.1 sent a reply expressing his willingness to execute the sale deed which was
marked as Ex.B.9.  P.W.1 received the same under Ex.B-10 postal acknowledgement.    
It was also further deposed that in the Vacation Court, P.W.1 obtained interim
injunction restraining him from alienating, but D.W.1 never tried to sell the
property to anybody.  This witness also further deposed about the other factual
details.  The defendant/D.W.1 was cross-examined at length.  Certain suggestions
put to him had been denied.
12.             As can be seen from the respective stands taken by the parties, the
agreement of sale Ex.A.1 is not in serious controversy.  It is also not in
serious controversy that the plaintiff had sufficient money, but however the
stand taken is that he was not willing to perform his part of the contract and
hence the relief was negatived.  Relating to receiving of Ex.B.6 and Ex.B.7
there is some controversy and certain findings had been recorded in relation
thereto.  Be that as it may, the main ground for refusing the relief of specific
performance, as can be seen from certain of the findings recorded by the trial
Court is that the plaintiff approached the Court without waiting for the
completion of the date 30-4-1987, the last date fixed for the execution of the
sale deed.  In the light of the specific stand taken by the plaintiff and the
evidence adduced by the plaintiff as P.W.1, this Court is of the considered
opinion, especially in the light of what had been deposed by D.W.1 relating to
the obtaining of Income Tax Clearance Certificate and the problems relating
thereto, the reasoning adopted by the trial Court cannot be said to be
sustainable in the facts and circumstances of the case.  It appears, subsequent
to the filing of the suit, the defendant expressed his willingness and readiness
to perform his part of the contract by executing a sale deed in favour of the
plaintiff in the counter filed by him in I.A.No.48/87 if the plaintiff comes
forward to pay the balance of sale consideration within 20 days i.e., on or
before 31-5-1987.  Certain findings had been recorded in relation thereto also.
Reliance was placed on the decision of a Division Bench of this Court in Desi
Kedari Vs. Huzurabad Co-operative Marketing Society Limited1 wherein at paras 11
to 13 it was observed :
        "It was next contended by Sri Narayanarao that the judgment of the trial
Court is not in conformity with Order 20 Rule 6 CPC.  It is to be noted that the
judgment was pronounced by the learned Judge under Order 15 Rule 1 CPC at the  
first hearing of the suit, as he was convinced that the parties were not at
issue on any question of law or of fact.  The Court was competent to pronounce
at once the judgment.  It was therefore not necessary to conform to the
procedure laid down under Order 20.  When a judgment is pronounced under Or.15 
Rule 1 CPC there was no necessity to conform to the procedure laid down under
Order 20 CPC.  We are unable to accept the contention of the learned Counsel
based on Swaran Lata vs. Harendra Kumar (AIR 1969 S.C. 1167) in which the  
pleadings of the parties raised questions of fact and law and the suit was fully
tried on questions of law and facts which arose out of the issues.
        It was further contended by the learned Counsel for the respondents that
even if the decree of the trial Court was a consent decree, the consent was not
given by the authorized person and the appeal was maintainable under Section 96
CPC and that there was no bar under sub-section (3).  In support of the said
proposition, the learned Counsel relied on Sohan Lal Vs. Union of India (AIR
1991 S.C. 955).  The said decision is not applicable to the facts of the case,
as the decree in that case was not a consent decree as in the case on hand.
        It is to be noticed that defendant in a suit has to make specific denials
of the allegations contained in the plaint, if he does not admit the truth of
the allegations under Order 8 Rule 3 CPC.  The defendant must raise by his
pleadings all matters which show that the suit is not maintainable or that the
transaction is either void or voidable in point of law and all such grounds of
defence as, if not raised, would be likely to take the opposite party by
surprise, or would raise issues of fact not arising out of the plaint, under
Rule 2 of Order 8.  In the present case, the plaintiff did not take any other
plea except to state that the sale deed will be executed on receipt of orders
from the Registrar.  None of the allegations contained in the plaint were denied
and on the other hand, they were all specifically admitted. Under such
circumstances, it was open to the Court to proceed under Rule 1 of Order 10 and
on the admission of facts, either from the party or his Counsel and to proceed
further in the matter; and issues have to be framed under Order 14 Rule 1 CPC
only when material proposition of fact or law is affirmed by one party and
denied by the other.  When there was no such denial, the Court was competent to
pronounce judgment at once under Rule 1 of Order 15 CPC. 

As can be seen from the respective pleadings of the parties, it cannot be said
that absolutely there is no contest at all.  May be, that was the reason why the
Issues were settled and the learned Judge further proceeded with the trial.  The
learned Counsel also placed strong reliance on P.D'Souza v. Shondrilo Naidu 2
wherein the Apex Court at paras 40 and 41 observed :
        "The third contention of the learned Counsel to the effect that this Court
should not exercise its discretionary jurisdiction in view of hardship which
would be faced by the defendant is stated to be rejected.  Such a plea was not
raised before the High Court.
        It is not a case where the defendant did not foresee the hardship.  It is
furthermore not a case that non-performance of the agreement would not cause any
hardship to the plaintiff.  The defendant was a landlord of the plaintiff.  He
had accepted part payments from the plaintiff from time to time without any
demur whatsoever.  He redeemed the mortgage only upon receipt of requisite
payment from the plaintiff.  Even in August 1981 i.e., just two months prior to
the institution of the suit, he had accepted Rs.20,00/- from the plaintiff.  It
is, therefore, too late for the Appellant now to suggest that having regard to
the escalation in price, the Respondent should be denied the benefit of the
decree passed in his favour.  Explanation 1 appended to Section 20 clearly
stipulates that mere inadequacy of consideration, or the mere fact that the
contract is erroneous to the defendant or improvident in its nature would not
constitute an unfair advantage within the meaning of sub-section (2) of Section
20."

Likewise, in Aniglase Yohannan Vs. Ramalatha 3 the Apex Court observed at paras 
9, 11, 12 and 13 as hereunder :
        "The requirements to be fulfilled for bringing in compliance of the
Section 16 (c) of the Act have been delineated by this court in several
judgments. Before dealing with the various judgments it is necessary to set out
the factual position. The agreement for sale was executed on 15. 2. 1978 and the
period during which the sale was to be completed was indicated to be six months.
Undisputedly, immediately after the expiry of the six months period lawyer's
notice was given calling upon the present appellant to execute the sale deed. It
is also averred in the plaint that the plaintiff met the defendant several times
and requested him to execute the sale deed. On finding inaction in his part, the
suit was filed in September, 1978. This factual position has been highlighted in
the plaint itself. Learned single Judge after noticing the factual position as
reflected in the averments in the plaint came to hold that the plaint contains
essential facts which lead to inference to plaintiff's readiness and
willingness. Para 3 of the plaint indicates that the plaintiff was always ready
to get the sale deed prepared after paying necessary consideration. In para 4 of
the plaint reference has been made to the lawyer's notice calling upon the
defendant to execute the sale deed. In the said paragraph it has also been
described as to how after the lawyer's notice was issued plaintiff met the
defendant. In para 5 it is averred that defendant is bound to execute the sale
deed on receiving the balance amount and the plaintiff was entitled to get the
document executed by the defendant. It is also not in dispute that the balance
amount of the agreed consideration was deposited in court simultaneously to the
filing of the suit. While examining the requirement of Section 16 (c) this Court
in Syed Dastagir v. T. R. Gopalakrishna Setty (1999(6) SCC 337) noted as
follows:
"So the whole gamut of the issue raised is, how to construe a plea specially
with reference to Section 16 (c) and what are the obligations which the
plaintiff has to comply with in reference to his plea and whether the plea of
the plaintiff could not be construed to conform to the requirement of the
aforesaid section, or does this section require specific words to be pleaded
that he has performed or has always been ready and is willing to perform his
part of the contract. In construing a plea in any pleading, courts must keep in
mind that a plea is not an expression of art and science but an expression
through words to place fact and law of one's case for a relief. Such an
expression may be pointed, precise, sometimes vague but still it could be
gathered what he wants to convey through only by reading the whole pleading,
depending on the person drafting a plea. In India most of the pleas are drafted
by counsel hence the aforesaid difference of pleas which inevitably differ from
one to the other. Thus, to gather true spirit behind a plea it should be read as
a whole. This does not distract one from performing his obligations as required
under a statute. But to test whether he has performed his obligations, one has
to see the pith and substance of a plea. Where a statute requires any fact to be
pleaded then that has to be pleaded may be in any form. The same plea may be 
stated by different persons through different words; then how could it be
constricted to be only in any particular nomenclature or word. Unless a statute
specifically requires a plea to be in any particular form, it can be in any
form. No specific phraseology or language is required to take such a plea. The
language in Section 16 (c) does not require any specific phraseology but only
that the plaintiff must aver that he has performed or has always been and is
willing to perform his part of the contract. So the compliance of "readiness and
willingness" has to be in spirit and substance and not in letter and form. So to
insist for a mechanical production of the exact words of a statute is to insist
for the form rather than the essence. So the absence of form cannot dissolve an
essence if already pleaded."

 Again in Motilal Jain v. Ramdasi Devi (Smt.) and others (2000(6) SCC 420) it
was noted as follows:
"The other contention which found favour with the High Court, is that plaint
averments do not show that the plaintiff was ready and willing to perform his
part of the contract and at any rate there is no evidence on record to prove it.
Mr. Choudhary developed that contention placing reliance on the decision in
Varghese case (1969) 2 SCC 539). In that case, the plaintiff pleaded an oral
contract for sale of the suit property. The defendant denied the alleged oral
agreement and pleaded a different agreement in regard to which the plaintiff
neither amended his plaint nor filed subsequent pleading and it was in that
context that this Court pointed out that the pleading in specific performance
should conform to Forms 47 and 48 of the First schedule of the Code of Civil
Procedure. That view was followed in Abdul Khader case ( 1989(4) SCC 313: (AIR
1990 S.C. 682)."
However, a different note was struck by this court in Chandiok case (1970 (3)
SCC 140 : AIR 1971 SC 1238). In that case 'A' agreed to purchase from 'R' a
leasehold plot. 'R' was not having lease of the land in his favour from the
Government nor was he in possession of the same. 'R', however, received earnest
money pursuant to the agreement for sale which provided that the balance of
consideration would be paid within a month at the time of the execution of the
registered sale deed. Under the agreement 'R' was under obligation to obtain
permission and sanction from the Government before the transfer of leasehold
plot. 'R' did not take any steps to apply for the sanction from the Government.
'A' filed the suit for specific performance of the contract for sale. One of the
contentions of 'R' was that 'A' was not ready and willing to perform his part of
the contract. This Court observed that readiness and willingness could not be
treated as a straitjacket formula and that had to be determined from the
entirety of facts and circumstances relevant to the intention and conduct of the
party concerned. It was held that in the absence of any material to show that
'A' at any stage was not ready and willing to perform his part of the contract
or that he did not have the necessary funds for payment when the sale deed would
be executed after the sanction was obtained, 'A' was entitled to a decree for
specific performance of contract. That decision was relied upon by a three-Judge
bench of this Court in Syed Dastagir case (1999 (6) SCC 337) wherein it was held
that in construing a plea in any pleading, courts must keep in mind that a plea
is not an expression of art and science but an expression through words to place
fact and law of one's case for a relief. It is pointed out that in India most of
the pleas are drafted by counsel and hence they inevitably differ from one to
the other; thus, to gather the true spirit behind a plea it should be read as a
whole and to test whether the plaintiff has performed his obligations, one has
to see the pith and substance of the plea. It was observed :
"Unless a statute specifically requires a plea to be in any particular form, it
can be in any form. No specific phraseology or language is required to take such
a plea. The language in Section 16 (c) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 does not
require any specific phraseology but only that the plaintiff must aver that he
has performed or has always been and is willing to perform his part of the
contract. So the compliance of 'readiness and willingness has to be in spirit
and substance and not in letter and form."
It is thus clear that an averment of readiness and willingness in the plaint is
not a mathematical formula which should only be in specific words. If the
averments in the plaint as a whole do clearly indicate the readiness and
willingness of the plaintiff to fulfill his part of the obligations under the
contract which is the subject-matter of the suit, the fact that they are
differently worded will not militate against the readiness and willingness of
the plaintiff in a suit for specific performance of contract for sale. "        
        .....
        The basic principle behind Section 16(c) r/w. Explanation (ii) is that any
person seeking benefit of the specific performance of contract must manifest
that his conduct has been blemishless throughout entitling him to the specific
relief.  The provision imposes a personal bar.  The Court is to grant relief on
the basis of the conduct of the person seeking relief.  If the pleadings
manifest that the conduct of the plaintiff entitles him to get the relief on
perusal of the plaint he should not be denied the relief.
        Section 16(c) of the Act mandates the plaintiff to aver in the plaint and
establish as the fact by evidence aliunde that he has always been reading and
willing to perform his part of the contract. On considering almost identical
fact situation it was held by this Court in Surya Narain Upadhyaya v. Ram Roop
Pandey and others (AIR 1994 S.C. 105) that the plaintiff had substantiated his
plea.
        When the factual background is considered in the light of the principles
set out above, the inevitable conclusion is that the judgments of the learned
single Judge and the Full Bench do not suffer from any infirmity to warrant
interference."

13.             Even if the conduct of both P.W.1 and D.W.1 to be carefully
appreciated in the light of the evidence of D.W.1 and also Exs.B-3, B-4, B-5 and
B-8 and further in the light of the evidence of P.W.1 and Exs.A-5, A-6 and A-7
and also the recitals of Ex.A-1 and the notices between the parties, this Court
is of the considered opinion that the trial Court having recorded certain
positive findings in favour of the appellant/plaintiff is not justified in
refusing the relief of specific performance, that too, on the ground that even
before the date fixed, in undue haste, the appellant/plaintiff approached the
Court.  In the light of the clear evidence of P.W.1 and also certain admissions
made by D.W.1 as well, it may be for the reason that for some time the execution
of the registered sale deed was postponed since a request was made by D.W.1  
himself and subsequent thereto it appears during the Vacation Court,
apprehending some alienation which may be made, the suit had been instituted and
a proper application in relation there to appears to have been moved.  Hence,
viewed from any angle, this Court is thoroughly satisfied that though the relief
of specific performance is a discretionary relief, such discretion to be
exercised in a judicious manner. The trial Court had not appreciated the
evidence available on record in proper perspective and recorded erroneous
findings and totally erred in negativing the relief of specific performance and
in just directing the refund of the amount.  In relation to escalation of
prices, certain submissions were made and it is stated that no specific plea in
this regard had been taken.  Inasmuch as it is stated that the amount already
had been deposited, this Court need not express any further opinion relating to
the said aspect and it is needless to say that the appellant/plaintiff is bound
to succeed.
14.     Point No.2:  In the light of the findings recorded above, the Judgment and
Decree of the trial Court are hereby set aside.  The appellant/plaintiff is
entitled to the relief of specific performance as prayed for.  The Appeal is
accordingly allowed. However, taking the conduct of both the parties into
consideration, the parties to the litigation to bear their own costs.

?1 1994(2) ALT 539 
2 AIR 2004 S.C. 4472 
3 AIR 2005 S.C. 3503*THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE GHULAM MOHAMMED             

+A.S. No.1809 of 2002 

%23-04-2007  

#T.Bhoopal Reddy and another. 

$K.R.Lakshmi Bai and another. 

!For the Appellant :Mr. Krishna Mohan Rao

^For the Respondent: Mr. Damodar Reddy   

:JUDGMENT:   

The unsuccessful plaintiffs preferred this appeal challenging the judgment and
decree dated 14-5-2002 passed in O.S.No.51 of 1994 by the   Court of the Senior
Civil Judge, Nizamabad,  dismissing the suit  filed seeking the relief of
partition and separate possession of the suit properties mentioned in the
plaint.
2.      As stated above, the appellants are plaintiffs and the respondent No.1 and
2 are the defendants in the original suit.  Respondent No.1 and 2 are the wife
and daughter of one K.R.Rajareddy.  During the pendency of appeal,  respondent
No.1 (first defendant) died on 30-03-2004 and, therefore, respondents No.3 and 4
were brought on record by orders of this Court dated 17-11-2004 in CMP No.14478
of 2004, by virtue of the Will Deed document No.75 of 2004 Book-III, Dt.20-05-
2004 
3.      For the purpose of convenience, the parties shall be referred to as
arrayed before the trial Court.
4.      The plaintiffs 1 and 2 are husband and wife. The averments made by the
plaintiffs in the plaint,  in brief, are that late K.R.Rajareddy originally was
native of Manala village and that in the year 1945, K.R.Rajareddy along with his
wife i.e., first defendant (since deceased) shifted to Kamareddy town and there,
he commenced his business taking contracts of 'beedi' leaves.  It was further
stated in the plaint that the second plaintiff and the second defendant are
daughters of late K.R.Rajareddy and first defendant and that K.R.Rajareddy had
no male issues.  That late K.R.Rajareddy was the chairman of Zilla Parishad,
Nizamabad from 1964 to 1976.  The  first plaintiff was taken as illatom son-in-
law in the year 1967 and the marriage of first plaintiff with second plaintiff
was performed on 19-2-1968.  It was further stated in the plaint that at the
time of taking illatom adoption of first plaintiff, late K.R.Rajareddy executed
an agreement on 11-11-1967 agreeing to give one-third share in his properties.
Since the date of marriage, first plaintiff is living with K.R.Rajareddy at his
house and looking after all his business and agriculture.  In the year 1979
marriage of the second defendant was performed with Mr. C. Rama Krishna Reddy of 
Jakranpally village.  An amount of Rs.2,50,000/-, (50) tolas gold, and 1000
tolas silver ornaments apart from household articles were given as dowry.  Since
the date of marriage of the second defendant with Ramakrishna Reddy, she is
living with her husband at Jakranpally and later they shifted to Hyderabad.  It
was further stated that late K.R.Rajareddy, purchased lands mentioned below
situated at Kamareddy. 
Sy.No.           Extent                                Sy.Nos.
Extent
                      Ac.Gts.
Ac.Gts 

  18                 0-23 (wet)                              17
0-04 Dry
  19                 0-12 ( ,, )                                24
1-03 ( ,,)
   20                0-19                                        23
11-31( ,,)
   21                0-33                                        28
7-34( ,,)
   22                0-06                                        80
0-07(,,)
   23                0-08                                        81
0-14( ,,)
   908              1-25                                        82
0-14( ,,)
   909              1-23                                       878
2-12( ,,)
   910              3-00                                       880
5-24( ,,)
   907              1-09                                       898
5-12( ,,)

5.    Out of the above said lands,  an extent of Ac.2-32 gts. and Ac.2-12 gts.
in Sy.No.28 and 878 respectively were surrendered in the land ceiling and that
the remaining land except the land in Sy.No.28, 898 and 880 were converted into
plots and were sold away to clear off the debts incurred by the family, and plot
Nos.64 to 74 of 36 x 58 sq.ft each in L.P.No.223/81 and plot Nos. 49 and 50 of
(60 x 50) sq. fts. and plot Nos.104 and 105 of 'B' section of L.P.No.331/81 and
plot Nos.1 to 5, 8 to 26, 38, 39, 40, 58 to 62 in 'A' section of L.P.No.331/81
and 34 plots in Sy.No.908 and 909.
6.      The plaintiffs further stated in their plaint that late
Sri K.R.Rajareddy  purchased house bearing No.3-1-10 situated at Sarojini Devi
Road, Kamareddy consisting of (15) rooms over a plot of 684 sq. yards with open
space and later, he constructed double storied building consisting of 12 rooms
with five halls over the open space with (7) bath rooms and latrines.  A portion
of it was let out to APSWC for Rs.350/- p.m for library for Rs.1500/- and (9)
rooms for Rs.1350/-.    Late K R.Rajareddy constructed the following houses,
theatres and godowns at Kamareddy and they are :- 
1. Mangalore tiled house bearing No.1-3-78 (New 1-5-94) in Sy.No.898 consisting
of (10) rooms situated at Kamareddy road, Kamareddy and (10) labour quarters in
the same survey number. 
2. House No. 1-8-170 old (New 1-11-91) partly with R.C.C. and partly with tin
roof consisting of one hall and kitchen admeasuring 46 x 45 sq. ft. situated at
Station Road, Kamareddy.  
3. Four mulgies with R.C.C.bearing No.1-8-164, 166, 167 and 168 adm. 250 sq.
yards situated at Station Road, Kamareddy.
4. Kamal talkies bearing H.No. 1-8-169 old (New No.1-11-92) over plot No.2201.27
sq.mtrs situated at Station Road, Kamareddy.  ( it was let out for Rs.19,000/-
per annum). 
5. Godowns in Sy.No.23 and 907 with total plinth area of 30.960 sq.ft.
constructed over a plot of 77.520 sq.ft bearing H.No.1-3-78/6, Old ( 1-5-91 new)
situated at Ramareddy road, Kamareddy.  
6. Murali Khandasari Sugar Mill (the same was closed after the death of
Mr.K.R.Rangareddy). 


7.      Late K.R.Rajareddy also purchased lands mentioned below situated at Adloor 
shivar and they were given in gift to Smt. K.R.Swaroopa, the second defendant:
Sy.Nos.               Extent                              Sy.Nos.
Extent
                           Ac.gts.
Ac.gts.
  435                   17-00                                  465
18-29

  459                     3-20                                   466
16-25
462 5-20                                Total Ac.            60-14 gts.

8.      It was stated that all the above mentioned properties are self acquired
properties of late K.R.Rajareddy and he was the absolute owner irrespective of
the fact in whose name the properties stand.   In February, 1981, K.R. Rajareddy
was bed ridden and he settled all properties and at his instance, first
defendant gave the following properties to plaintiffs by executing document
dt.14-2-1981 in the presence of elders.  K.R. Rajareddy died on 19-2-1981.
After the death of .K.R.Rajareddy, plaintiffs and defendant No.1 continued to be
in joint possession of the properties left by K.R.Rajareddy, as shown under: -
1. Agricultural lands to the extent of (5) acres in Sy.No.898 and house thereon
bearing No.1-3-78 corresponding to new No.1-5-94 and (10) rooms meant for labour
over the same land situated at Ramareddy road, Kamareddy.  
2. 3/5th share in Kamal Talkies bearing No.1-8-169 corresponding to New No.1-11-
92.
3. 3/5th share in Godowns constructed over Sy.No.23, 907 let out to
F.C.I.bearing H.No.1-3-78/6, corresponding to new         No.1-5-91.
4. 3/5th share in the plots in Sy.No.17, 23, 80, 81, 82, 908 and 909 situated at
Kamareddy.  
5. 1/3rd share in House bearing No.3-1-10 and lands to the extent of Ac.5-20,
Ac.5-00 gts. in Sy.Nos.880 and 28 situated at Kamareddy. 
6. House No.1-8-70 corresponding to new No.1-11-91. 

9.       In pursuance of the above said agreement dated  14-2-1981, plaintiffs
are living with first defendant since 1981 and are looking after the family
properties.    The debts raised for construction of godowns and used by FCI
remain undischarged by the date of death of K.R.Rajareddy and as such,
plaintiffs did not insist for effecting the transfer  and mutation of properties
given to them.  All loans are cleared of out of the income of the properties
including the properties given to the plaintiffs.  The loan raised for
construction of M/s Murali Khandasari Sugar Mills still remain undischarged.
That plaintiffs requested the first defendant to submit necessary applications
before the authorities concerned for getting the properties transferred in the
names of plaintiffs as per the agreement of the year 1981 but, the first
defendant refused to do so.  That on 1-8-1994, plaintiffs approached the first
defendant with the said request for mutation of properties in their names, as
per the agreement of the year 1981.  Since first defendant did not concede to
the request of plaintiffs,  they are made to file the suit for partition and
separate possession of their properties.  That second defendant being the legal
heir and representative of late K.R.Rajareddy is also necessary and proper party
in suit.

10.    The defendant No.1 Smt. K.R. Laxmi Bai filed her written statement with
the following averments:
 11.    It is denied that late K.R.Rajareddy hailed from Manala village and that
he and the defendant No.1 shifted to Kamareddy in the year 1940 and was engaged 
in beedi leaves business.   It was stated that the plaintiff No.2 is not the
real daughter of K.R.Rajareddy and defendant No.1 and the plaintiffs suppressed
this fact with malafides.  The real parents of plaintiff No.2 hailed from Adloor
Yellareddy village belonging to Besta community.  The mother of plaintiff No.2
died after giving birth to her.  Plaintiff No.2 was brought to Kamareddy by her
near relative when she was just three weeks old, in the year 1953.   The said
relative of plaintiff No.2 brought her to K. R. Rajareddy and requested him and
defendant No.1 to bring her (plaintiff No.2) up as foster child in the year
1953.  The plaintiff No.2  was brought up by late K. R. Rajareddy and the
defendant No.1.  Thereafter, defendant No.1 gave birth to defendant No.2 and she
(defendant No.2) is the only real and own daughter of late K. R. Rajareddy and
defendant No.1.  The plaintiff No.2 was brought up by defendant No.1 and her
husband Rajareddy by giving her proper education.  The plaintiff No.2 was
married to plaintiff No.1 in the year 1968 and she was given cash and gold. That
the contention of the plaintiffs that the plaintiff No.1 was taken in illatom
adoption by Sri K. R. Rajareddy and defendant No.1 is incorrect.  Defendant No.1
is not aware of any agreement between the plaintiff No.1 and late K. R.
Rajareddy about giving 1/3rd share in all his properties to plaintiffs and even
if there is such agreement, it has no bearing so far as the rights of defendant
No.1 are concerned.  The defendant No.1 neither agreed nor consented to any such
agreement and it is not valid under the law.
12.     That marriage of defendant No.2 was performed with Ram Krishna Reddy in
the year 1979.  No cash or gold was given in the marriage of defendant No.2.  It
is denied that the plaintiff No.1 was looking after family business and
agriculture of defendant No.1 and her husband.
13.     That late K. R. Rajareddy did not purchase all lands shown in para No.2
of the plaint.  Late K. R. Rajareddy purchased only lands in Sy.No.28 measuring
5 acres, Sy.No.878/a measuring 2 acres 12 gts., Sy.No.880 measuring 5 acres 24 
gts.  Out of the above lands, K.R.Rajareddy surrendered Ac.2-32 gts. in Sy.No.28
and Ac.2-12 gts. in Sy.No.878 under land ceiling Act.  At the time of death of
K.R.Rajareddy, the lands that were available are Ac.5-24 gts. in Sy.No.880 and
Ac.2-08 gts. in Sy.No.28.
14.     That defendant No.1 is the absolute owner and possessor of the following
lands purchased with her own money. 
i) Land bearing Sy.No.18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 898 purchased in the year 1958
under registered sale deed.  These lands have been mutated in the name of
defendant No.1 as owner and pattedar.
ii) Lands bearing Sy.No.907 purchased from its previous owner and in this
regard, proceeding U/s 50 B of Tenancy Act were issued validating the sale vide
Proc.No.A3/1385/1965 dt.17-4-1965. 
iii) Land bearing Sy.No.908 and 909 purchased from its previous owners vide
proceedings U/s 50 B of Tenancy Act No.A3/1386/1965 dt.29-7-1965.  
iv) Sy.No.17 measuring 4 guntas and Sy.No.19 measuring 12 gts. 

15.     The lands bearing Sy.No.80, 81, measuring 7 guntas and 14 guntas
respectively of Kamareddy village were purchased by defendant No.2 in the year
1978 from its previous owner under registered sale deed.  Subsequently,
defendant No.2 sold the above said lands to Sri Srinivas Reddy, brother of
defendant No.1.  The said Srinivas Reddy, brother of defendant No.1 in turn
gifted the said lands in Sy.No.80 and 81 to defendant No.1 through registered
gift deeds dt.29-11-1984.  Plot Nos.63 and 74 in the said survey numbers have
already been sold to others before filing of this suit.  The sanction of layout
plan is awaited in respect of lands in Sy.Nos.908 and 909.  The lands bearing
Sy.No.82 and 910 are not belonging to either defendant No.1 or her husband and
they are wrongly included in the suit properties.
16.     That defendant No.1 converted her lands into plots and sold them after
the death of her husband in order to discharge huge debts left by her husband.
That the Mangalore tiled farm house with labour quarters were not constructed by
late K.R.Rajareddy.  The said quarters were constructed by defendant No.1 with
her own money and in her own land in Sy.No.898.  The properties referred in sub
para (ii) of the plaint was gifted by K.R.Rajareddy to plaintiff No.2.  The
properties referred in sub para (iii) of the plaint were gifted by K.R.Rajareddy
to defendant No.2.  The property gifted to plaintiff No.2 is worth more than
Rs.Thirty lakhs.
17.   That K.R.Rajareddy sold Kamal Talkies to defendant No.1 for a
consideration of Rs.15,000/- under registered sale deed dated.2-1-1971.  The
said Kamal Talkies has been mutated in the name of first defendant and it has
been leased out on a monthly rent of Rs.1200/-.  That  defendant No.1
constructed godowns in her own lands in Sy.No.23 and 907 by raising loan of 6
Lakh Rupees from State Bank of Hyderabad, in the year 1977-78, and lent the same 
to Food Corporation of India, Defendant No.1 authorized the Manager of the Bank
to receive rents from F.C.I and adjust the same towards loan account.  Thus the
entire loan was discharged by October, 1985 and since then, the defendant No.1
has been receiving rents from F.C.I.
18.   That Late K.R.Rajareddy constructed Khandsari Sugar Mill by spending huge
amounts and in order to help the plaintiff No.2, her husband (Plaintiff No.1),
their children and also defendant No.2, Rajareddy included them as partners of
Khandasari Mill.  Plaintiff No.1 was Managing partner of said Sugar Mill.
Plaintiff No.1  raised huge loans from S.F.C and also banks and failed to
discharge the loans.  The State Finance Corporation sold the said Sugar Mill for
realisation of loan amount.  These facts have been suppressed by the plaintiffs.
19.      The plaintiffs suppressed the fact of K.R.Rajareddy purchasing land of
Ac.52-19 gt. in Sy.No.434, 436, 438, and 441 at Adloor village in the name of
plaintiff No.2 for her through sale deeds dt.6-10-1970.  It is denied that the
plaintiff No.1 purchased the above said lands in the name of his wife, Plaintiff
No.2.  That the properties standing in the name of defendant No.1 are her own
properties and late K.R.Rajareddy had no concern with the same.
20.     It is denied that late K.R.Rajareddy settled all properties and gave the
properties to plaintiffs by executing agreement dated 14-2-1981.  Plaintiff No.1
malafidely fabricated this document in connivance with his friends.  It is
stated that Sri K.R.Rajareddy was in the hospital at Hyderabad for treatment and
as his condition worsened, he was asked to be taken back to home and thus he was  
brought to Kamareddy.  Defendant No.2, her husband, close relatives of defendant
No.1, relatives of K.R.Rajareddy viz., Srinivas Reddy of Perkit, brothers of
defendant No.1 namely Narsimha Reddy and Ramchandra Reddy of Kotaarmoor village,    
nephews of defendant No.1  M.Hanmanth Reddy and other close relatives were  
present till the death of K.R.Rajareddy.  Dr.Anjal Reddy of Kamareddy has been
visiting once or twice and remaining there for couple of hours at the house and
the condition of Rajareddy was causing anxiety.  In such a tense and gloomy
situation, it is incomprehensible that this defendant would execute the said
deed dated 14-2-1981 in favour of plaintiffs.  The plaintiffs managed to bring
into existence a false document for the purpose of this suit.  If at all
K.R.Rajareddy wishes of such settlement and that too in respect of his own
properties, he would have himself executed a Will or any other document.  In
fact there was no love lost between the same and so the question of Rajareddy
desiring or wishing of settling the properties to the plaintiff does not arise.
21.    The following properties are also stated to be the own properties of
defendant No.1 :-

a) Agricultural land bearing Sy.No.898 of Kamareddy and house over it bearing
H.No.1-5-94 and rooms for labours.
b) Kamal Talkies premises bearing No.1-8-169 (old) new No.1-11-92 situated at
Kamareddy.  
c) Lands bearing Sy.No.17, 18, 19, 20, 24, 23, 80, 81 in which plots were made
by sanctioned layout and most of the plots have been sold.  In Sy.Nos.908 and
908 also plots are made but sanction of layout is awaited.
d) Godowns bearing Mpl.No.1-3-78/6 (old), 1-5-91 (New) constructed on the lands
of defendant No.1 in Sy.Nos.23 and 907 situated at Kamareddy. 

22.     The following properties of K.R.Rajareddy are stated to be inherited by
defendant No.1, after his death :-
a) House bearing No.3-1-10 situated at Kamareddy; 
b) Lands bearing Sy.No.28 measuring 2 acres 8 gts. and Sy.No.880 measuring 5  
acres 24 gts. situated at Kamareddy.

23.     The defendant No.1 is in exclusive possession of all the above said
properties and enjoying the same. The defendant No.1 permitted the plaintiffs to
stay in her own house bearing No.1-5-94.  Since the plaintiffs are raising false
claim over the said house; they cease to have any right to stay in it and the
defendant No.1 reserves her right to get them evicted and take back  possession.
24.     The plaintiff No.1 and his two sons were having share of 60 paise and
defendant No.2 was having share of 40 paise in the Khandasri Sugar Mill.  The
plaintiff No.1 was the Managing Partner of the said Khandsari Sugar Mill and
because of him, the mill went in huge loss and it was sold by S.F.C for
realisation of the loan amount.  That when the plaintiffs have no right over the
properties, the question of its mutation does not arise.      That the suit for
partition is not maintainable and the plaintiffs were never in joint possession
and enjoyment of the properties.  The suit valuation made and court fee paid is
incorrect.
25.     In the additional paras of written statement it is stated that the
alleged agreement dated 14-2-1981 is not only a fabricated document it is also
inadmissible in evidence being unstamped and unregistered.  The suit is barred
by limitation.  The plaintiffs without claiming and establishing their rights
are not entitled to file suit for partition.
26.    The defendant No.2 filed memo adopting written statement of defendant
No.1.
27.      The plaintiffs filed rejoinder to the written statement of defendants
with the following averments :-
28.      It is incorrect to allege that the plaintiff No.2 is not the own
daughter of first defendant and her late husband K.R.Rajareddy.  It is also
denied that the parents of second plaintiff belong to Besta caste of Adloor
Yellareddy and she was brought up by the defendant No.1 and her husband as 
foster daughter.  The plaintiff no.2 is the own daughter of the defendant No.1
and her husband.  In all educational records and certificates, the plaintiff
No.2 is shown  as daughter of K.R.Rajareddy.  In the marriage invitation card,
agreement dated  11-11-1967 and in the Gift Deed No.3/1973 executed by late
K.R.Rajareddy, the second plaintiff is described and mentioned as the daughter
of K.R.Rajareddy.
29.       It  is denied that K.R.Rajareddy was owner and possessor of only three
survey numbers and that he has no right in respect of other lands.  First
defendant is not the owner of lands mentioned in paras (b) (i)(ii)(iii) and
(iv).  Late K.R.Rajareddy was having extensive business as Beedi leaves
Contractor and manufacturer and he was getting huge income and  so he purchased  
lands, building etc.  Late K.R.Rajareddy purchased some properties in his name
and some properties were purchased by him out of his own income in the names of 
his wife and daughter, in order to avoid income tax and wealth tax problems.
First defendant has no source of income and she did not purchase any property.
The lands in Sy.No.80 and 81 were also purchased by late K.R.Rajareddy in the
name of second defendant and in order to avoid payment of tax, these lands were
conveniently transferred to the first defendant.   Similarly, Sy.Nos. 907, 908
and 909 were purchased by late K.R.Rajareddy and they were validated in the name 
of first defendant.
30.     It is denied that  the Farm house in Sy.No.898 was constructed by first
defendant with her own income.  The farm house was constructed by late
K.R.Rajareddy in 1964 and later on transferred in the name of first defendant in
the Gram panchayath records to avoid income tax and wealth tax problems.  The 
plaintiffs have been residing in the house looking after agriculture since 1968,
onwards.  After filing of the suit, the roof of the house collapsed and the
plaintiff No.1 laid slab over it and renovated the same and constructed water
tank and compound wall etc. and spent Rs.4,00,000/- on such reconstruction.
That the premises of Kamal Talkies was actually belonged to late K.R.Rajareddy
and it was nominally transferred by him in the name of first defendant in order
to avoid income tax and wealth tax problem.  The defendant No.1 did not pay
Rs.15,000/- to her husband.  The first defendant is not the real owner of this
property and she has no right over it.  The rent of Kamal talkies was
Rs.19,000/- per annum and not Rs.1200/- p.m. 
31.  The godowns constructed on Sy.Nos.23 and 907 also belong to K.R.Rajareddy.  
Originally, K.R.Rajareddy made application to the F.C.I in the name of plaintiff
No.2 and defendant No.2, but as the land standing in the name of defendant No.1,
F.C.I. entered into agreement of lease in the name of defendant No.1 without any
formal application.  The work of fabrication of godown was done under the
supervision of first plaintiff.  The first defendant has no money of her own and
she did not invest any amount in the property.
32.   That the Khandsari Sugar Mill was constructed and started with the
financial assistance of A.P.S.F.C and Bank.  It is false to allege that the
first plaintiff swallowed huge amounts and failed to discharge the loan.  In
fact, the first plaintiff with his efforts made favouable settlement of loans
with A.P.S.F.C and bank.  An amount of Rs.48,00,000-00 was due to A.P.S.F.C. Out  
of which an amount of Rs.3,90,000-00 was realized by the sale of properties and
Rs.One lakh was paid by the first plaintiff and defendant No.2 in the ratio of
60% and 40% and the A.P.S.F.C had written off balance of Rs.43,10,000-00. 
Similarly, an amount of Rs.18,00,000/- was due to the bank out of which
Rs.6,70,000/- was paid after the decree of the court in the ratio of 60% and 40%
and the balance was written off and this was all done due to subsistent
persuasion of the first plaintiff.
33.     It is denied that the first plaintiff malafidely fabricated the document
dated: 14-2-1981 in connivance of his friends.   Late K.R.Rajareddy, during his
life time, never allowed relatives of defendant No.1 to come to him.  After the
death of K.R.Rajareddy only, all kith and kins of defendant No.1 gathered for
the last rites and ceremonies.  Dr.Anjal Reddy, Dr. Eashwaraiah, Dr.Chandrakanth
treated late K.R.Rajareddy.  Late Rajareddy had no pre-determination to prepare
the said document but he had the inclination to give some properties to the
plaintiffs and hence on the suggestion of Mr.Raghava Reddy, he asked first
defendant to make such an agreement.  All properties standing in the name of
first defendant and those which first defendant got through her late husband are
all the properties of late K.R.Rajareddy only.  The properties shown in para 7
(a) to 7 (d) are not the properties of the first defendant and she has no
absolute right in respect of the same properties.
34.      The plaintiffs are staying in the house on their own right and not on
any one's mercy and charity and they are not liable to be dispossessed
therefrom.  The liabilities of late K.R.Rajareddy were cleared by the plaintiffs
also with their properties and they have the right to share the properties of
late K.Rajareddy.  That the suit filed for partition is maintainable and the
court fee paid by the plaintiffs is correct since they are in joint possession
of the properties.
35.  Basing on the respective pleadings, the trial Court framed the  following
issues :-

1. Whether the plaintiff No.2 is the own daughter of late K.R.Rajareddy and
defendant No.1? 
2. Whether the alleged illatom adoption of plaintiff No.1 by late Sri
K.R.Rajareddy is correct, valid and binding on defendants and their properties?
3. Whether K.R.Rjareddy executed agreement on 11-11-1967 agreeing to give 1/3rd 
share in all the properties to the  1st plaintiff?
4. Whether all the properties shown in paras 2, 4 and 5 of plaint belong to late
K.R.Rajareddy? 
5. Whether the first defendant executed agreement dated 4-2-1981 giving suit
properties to the plaintiff as per the last will and wish of late K.R.Rajareddy?
6. Whether the agreement dated 14-2-1981 is true and valid and whether it is
admissible in evidence?
7. Whether the plaintiffs are in joint possession and enjoyment of the
properties after the death of K.R.Rajareddy?
8. Whether late K.R.Rajareddy had purchased the land referred to in para 5 of
the plaint and gifted to defendant No.2 as alleged by plaintiffs?
9. Whether Sri K.R.Rajareddy purchased 52 acres 19 guntas of land in
Sy.No.434/436, 438 and 441 at Adloor village in the name of plaintiff No.2 and
get the sale deed registered as alleged by the defendant in para 5 of written
statement? 
10. Whether the alleged agreement assigning the properties is true and valid and
whether it is admissible without stamps and registration?
11. To what relief?

36.     The trial Court on   framed an additional issue which is to the following
effect:
                12.     Whether the suit is barred by limitation ?

37.     Both the parties adduced oral and documentary evidence in support of their
respective cases.  On behalf of the plaintiffs, the first plaintiff himself was
examined as PW-1 besides examining PWs-2 to 9 and got marked Exs.A-1 to A-66.    
On behalf of the defendants, the first defendant was examined as DW-1; second
defendant  examined as DW-8, besides examining DWs.2 to 7 and 9 and got marked    
Exs.B-1 to B-188.
38.     The trial Court on consideration of the evidence, both oral and
documentary,  dismissed the suit by  its judgment and decree dated          14-
5-2002.  Aggrieved by the same, the plaintiffs preferred the present appeal.
39.     Heard Sri M. S. Ramachandra Rao, learned counsel for the appellants and
Sri N. Subba Reddy, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the counsel
for the respondents at length and perused the entire material available on
record including the written submissions filed by both the counsel.
40.     Sri M. S. Ramchandra Rao,  learned counsel appearing on behalf of the
plaintiffs-appellants vehemently contended that the plaintiff no.1 is the
illatom-son-law of the defendant no.1 and K.R.Rajareddy and that Ex.A.48 dated
11-11-1967 was executed at the time of engagement ceremony by K.R. Rajareddy   
promising to give 1/3rd share in his properties to the plaintiff no.1 and that
in view Ex.A.49 dated 14-2-1981 executed by the defendant no.1 agreeing to give
certain properties to the plaintiffs, at the behest of late K.R. Rajareddy, who
wanted to keep his promise to the plaintiffs made under Ex.A.48, the plaintiffs
are entitled for the relief sought for in the suit . Learned counsel relying on
documentary evidence Ex.A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4 and A.5, A.6 and A.30 would contend  
that the plaintiff no.2 is the natural daughter of defendant no.1 and K. R.
Rajareddy and therefore the entire approach of the trial Court in disbelieving
them is not correct. It was further contended that no account books, bank pass
books are filed to show that defendant no.1 had any independent income of her
own and that all the plaint schedule properties are the properties of K.R.
Rajareddy and in the absence of any lawful income on the part of defendant no.1,
she cannot contend that she purchased the properties with her streedhana money.
Learned counsel also contended that plaintiffs are in joint possession of the
plaint schedule properties along with defendants and therefore the findings of
the trial Court that the plaintiffs are not in joint possession and that the
suit is barred by limitation are not correct. Sri M.S. Ramachandra  Rao, learned
counsel further submitted that the 1st plaintiff after discharging his
responsibility as son-in-law, and after the death of K.R.Rajareddy, asked for
share in the property and that the 1st plaintiff  written the letter Ex.B.2 in a
shocked mental condition and therefore the same cannot be taken into
consideration.
41.      Sri N. Subba Reddy, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the
counsel for the respondents contended that the plaintiffs miserably failed to
establish their case for grant of relief of  partition and separate possession
of the suit properties on the footing that they are entitled to a share in the
properties being illatom son in law and natural daughter of defendant no.1 and
K.R. Rajareddy. It is the contention of the learned Senior Counsel that any
mother would not deny the legitimacy of her own daughter, and that the 2nd
plaintiff has not gone into the witness box to assert that she is the natural
daughter of the 1st defendant and K.R.Raja reddy.  The learned Senior Counsel by
reading the entire evidence of defendant no.1-Laxmi Bai would contend that the
2nd plaintiff was brought up as a foster daughter and her evidence, being
mother, is of utmost importance as no woman would disown her daughter and state 
that she was not born to her.  Added to that, learned Senior Counsel submitted
that recitals in  Ex.B.2 letter dated 26-2-1980 written by the 1st plaintiff to
K.R. Rajareddy would clinchingly prove that the 2nd plaintiff is the foster
daughter of K.R. Rajareddy and first defendant. The trial Court on consideration
of the entire evidence on record came to the conclusion that the 2nd plaintiff
is only a foster daughter and in view of the same, the alleged plea of illatom
son law has no substance.  Learned Senior Counsel also submitted that the trial
Court on proper appreciation of the entire evidence on record came to the
conclusion that Ex.A.49 is only an unregistered agreement and as admitted by
P.W.1 in his deposition itself, that mere agreement does not convey title to the
property,  the remedy for them is to file a suit for specific performance and to
obtain  appropriate relief.  It is the further contention of the learned senior
counsel that the suit itself is misconceived and that Exs.A.48 and A.49 are
forged documents and that the suit is hopelessly barred by time and therefore
the appeal is liable to be dismissed.
42.     On the basis of the rival contentions, the following issues would emerge
for consideration in this appeal.
1) Whether the second plaintiff is the own daughter of K. R. Rajareddy?

2) Whether plaintiff no.1 is the illatom son in law of defendant no.1 and K.R.
Rajareddy ? 

3) Whether Ex A-48, and  Ex A-49  are true and valid? and

4) Whether the suit is barred by limitation?

Re. Issue No.1:

43.     The first question that falls for consideration is as to whether  the
second plaintiff  is own daughter of K.R.Rajareddy and the first defendant or
not ?  Both the parties in support of their contentions  have adduced oral and
documentary evidence on this aspect.  The plaintiffs  produced Ex.A.1-wedding
invitation card, Ex.A.2 statement of K.R. Rajareddy, Ex.A.3 copy of the order of
the Land Reforms Tribunal, Ex.A.4 and A.5, date of birth certificates issued by
the Z.P.P. Schools (Girls), Kamareddy and Z.P.P. School (Hanuman Mandir Road),  
Kamareddy wherein the plaintiff no.2 studied in classes 8 to 12 and class 5th
respectively, in which the plaintiff no.2 was described as the daughter of K.R.
Rajareddy.   PW-7 Teacher, working in Z.P.High School, Hanuman Mandir Road,   
Kamareddy, was also examined to prove Ex.A-5, date of birth certificate of
second plaintiff.     PW-7 produced original admission register of school,
wherein it was mentioned that the second plaintiff is the daughter of
K.R.Rajareddy and also her date of birth as 26-5-1953.  But PW-7 in his cross
examination categorically deposed that the details as to whether a father is
natural father, adoptive father, or foster father would not be noted in
admission register and the application form only contains such details as to
whether a father is adoptive father or natural father. It is also noteworthy
that  no clinching evidence or at least birth extract of second  plaintiff has
been filed by the plaintiffs, except relying upon documents marked as Exs.A-1 to
A-7 and    A-30.  The school certificates, gift deed, and the documents of land
reforms tribunal, exhibited in the case, mentions  the second plaintiff as the
daughter of K.R.Rajareddy.  As rightly contended by the learned Senior Counsel
for the respondents,  this is only one piece of evidence but the same cannot be
treated as conclusive proof of evidence to come to a conclusion as to the
legitimacy of the second plaintiff.  The trial Court adverting to this evidence
held that the first plaintiff failed to get the information about the birth
particulars of second plaintiff, and that he failed to prove that the second
plaintiff is the natural daughter of K.R.Rajareddy and his wife.
44.     Be that as it may, the first defendant, apart from oral evidence, adduced
documentary evidence Ex.B.1 to B.188.   From the above exhibits, Ex.B.9 is
stated to be horoscope of second plaintiff. Ex.B-9 is stated to be prepared by
late Vittal Sastry r/o Kaligote - wherein, the second plaintiff was described as
the brought up adopted daughter.   Ex.X-1 is the horoscope of Hanmandlu, son of
Maddula kishtabai, DW-2, ( Ex.X-1 ) and  Ex. X- 2 -horoscope of son of Katipally
chandra Bai, DW-3.  All the above three horoscopes are prepared by Vittal
Sastry.  His grandson, DW-4, Sudarshan Rao was examined and he identified the  
hand writing of Vittal Sastry.
45.       With regard to Ex.B.24, verification and inspection report of land
reforms officer, the parties have filed declarations separately, as independent
family Units, under the Land Reforms Act, in the year 1975.  The declaration
filed by the second plaintiff was scrutinized by the Verification Officer and he
submitted a report, (Ex B-24 dated 29-3-1976),  wherein it was stated that the
second plaintiff was the adopted daughter of K.R.Rajareddy, as in the
declaration filed by the second plaintiff, it was mentioned "the declarant is
the adopted daughter of Sri K.R.Rajareddy declarant in C.C.No.1240/75."  The
verifying officer states in the report that he had personally verified and
enquired into the declaration and certified that the information reported in the
statement and enclosures and in this questionnaire are true. Under those
circumstances,  non disputing of the same, in the objections of  statement,
submitted in reply to the verification report, by the second plaintiff, Ex B-44,
dated 21-4-1976 is fatal to the case of the plaintiffs as in the statement on
oath  given before the Land Reforms Officer, (Ex B-40 dated 23-7-1976), the
second plaintiff did not claim to be the natural daughter of late K.R.Rajareddy.
PW1 in his statement denied the statement on oath, by second plaintiff, before
land reforms Tribunal and stated that the verification officer did not call for
any objections and he did not give any verification report and that his wife did
not depose before the land reforms tribunal.  But Ex.B-24, is the verification
and inspection report.  It appears enquiry was made as to striking of the word
"adopted"  on Ex.B-24 and that  during the course of hearing of the suit, the
counsel for the plaintiffs before the trial Court had admitted that he received
a Xerox copy of Ex B-24 (marked as Ex B-43) wherein the word "adopted" was not 
struck off.  PW-1 in his cross examination states "it is true that in the copy
of declaration with verification report, submitted by the Second plaintiff to
the concerned authorities and filed by the defendant in this suit, the word
"adopted" appears to be struck off and in the copy of it, supplied to my counsel
and filed into the court that word "adopted" does not appear to be struck off".
46.     From the above document Ex.B-24, it follows that the Verification Officer
stated that second plaintiff was the adopted daughter and not the natural
daughter of K.R. Rajareddy and this description was not questioned by
plaintiffs.
47.     Ex.B-2 is another  document which is  a personal letter written by the
first plaintiff to K.R.Rajareddy, from New Delhi.  In the said letter, it is
said that, second defendant is his natural daughter and that there is no need
for him to do any service hereafter.  The translated recitals of the said letter
reads thus:
 "But as per aunty's thinking now your own son-in-law has come"........... "But
in case of swaroopa (second defendant)  if same happens she is adjusting herself
because she is her daughter"...
 "As per aunty's desire your son-in-law has come.  So I think my duty is not
required any more."......  "Even after not getting love and affection from aunty
from 1970 to 1980, we have performed our duty properly.  But in future her son-
in-law and daughter should perform......."

48.     In another letter Ex.B-3, dated 29-2-1980 written by first plaintiff to
K.R. Rajareddy wherein the first plaintiff stated that so far he wrote three
letters and sent one telegram to K.R. Rajareddy and that K.R. Rajareddy might
have received them.  He had  also stated in that letter that after seeing the
previous letter Ex.B.2, it might be painful to him (K.R. Rajareddy ).   In his
evidence PW-1 admits that Ex.B-1 to B-4 were letters written by him to K.R.
Rajareddy.
49.     The defendants also produced the documents relating to the suit filed by
SBH, Kamareddy, in O.S.No.133 of 1983, before the learned Subordinate Judge, 
Nizamabad, for recovery of the amount against Murali Khandasari Sugar Mills.  In
the plaint filed in the said suit, which is marked as Ex.B-41, dated 31-10-1983,
it was stated  explicitly that the second plaintiff is the foster daughter of
first defendant and K.R.Rajareddy and after K.R. Rajareddy's death, the
properties were devolved on his legal heirs, the defendants.  It is opt to refer
to  para-2 of the plaint,               Ex.B-41, which reads thus:
"That one Sri K.R.Rajareddy.........Kamareddy.  Defendant No.3 is his own
daughter, Defendant No.8 is his wife.  The defendant No.7 is the husband of
defendant No.3.  The defendant No.6 has been the foster daughter of defendant
No.8 and K.R.Rajareddy........K.R.Rajareddy died on 19.2.1981 and defendants 3
and 8 are his only heirs and legal representatives being his daughter and wife
respectively."

50.     In the written statement filed by the first defendant, (as legal
representative of K.R. Rajareddy in that suit)  it was admitted  "That the
contents of para-2 of the plaint are correct", it was  asserted that the second
plaintiff is not her natural daughter.  The 1st defendant categorically stated
in that written statement that herself and the second defendant are the only
heirs and legal representatives of late K.R.Rajareddy.  The bank manager
examined  by the counsel for plaintiffs of the suit,  also stated that "K.R.
Rajareddy informed him  that D6( 2nd plaintiff herein )  is his foster daughter.
The evidence of D.W.1 who is mother of second defendant and wife of K.R.
Rajareddy is thus:
"Plaintiff No.2 is not born to me but she was brought up by me and my husband.
I became pregnant at the age of 23 years, but it was aborted at 3 months
pregnancy.  After two years I became pregnant, but the pregnancy of four months
and also aborted.  I was given medicines and treated, but there was no use.  I
could not become pregnant for seven or eight years.  One bestha Sailoo was cook
with us, who informed us that one Pentamma of Kamareddy had brought girl child
of about twenty one days old, as her mother died, when the child was about seven
days age, who was resident of Adloor Yellareddy and she brought the child.  I
asked my cook to bring Pentamma with the child.  I sent for my mother and sister
and they came along with Narsa Reddy son of my sister, my mother-in-law as 
already there with me.  All of them thought that I should bring up the child.
Hence I retained the child and brought her up.   She was brought up by giving
tinned milk.  She was brought up as our daughter.  My cook sent to the village
Adloor Yellareddy to ascertain the date and time of the birth of the child,
which he brought and on that basis I got prepared Jamna patrika by one Vittal
Sastry of Kaligote village.  Myself and my husband gave love and affection and
parntage to the child.  She was got educated by Joining school.  She studied up
to 12th class.  The said cook, Pentamma and Vittal Sastry are no more.  Cradle
ceremony was performed in the third month by name her as Sunanda."..........
 .............."D-2 born to me after second plaintiff  was brought into our
family.  Hence the second plaintiff was called elder daughter and defendant no.2
was as younger daughter." 

51.     From a reading of the above evidence of the defendant no.1, even assuming
that there are disputes among the plaintiffs and defendants, no mother would
deny the legitimacy of her daughter.  The evidence of DW-1 clearly shows, that
the second plaintiff was brought up as a foster daughter and she explains the
circumstances under which she was brought into the family.  Her evidence, being
the mother, is of utmost importance.  That apart, the second plaintiff has not
come into the witness box to assert that she is the natural daughter of
defendant no.1 and K.R. Rajareddy.   In the natural circumstances, the evidence
of second plaintiff  would clinch the entire affairs of the family, but the
second plaintiff was not examined  to depose her status in the family. The
Jamnapatrika i.e., Horoscope (Ex B-9)  shows that she is not the natural
daughter of the K.R.Rajareddy.
52.     A plain reading of the above evidence goes to show that the second
plaintiff is the foster daughter of the K.R.Rajareddy and not the natural
daughter as claimed by the plaintiffs. The trial Court considering this evidence
on record on this point held that the plaintiffs failed to get the details about
the birth of second plaintiff.  The relevant portion of the trial Court's
judgment reads thus:
"  ......... the entire pleadings of the plaint are only describing the
properties of Rajareddy and giving stress as to the fact of first plaintiff
taken as illatom son-in-law and about the execution of Ex.A.49 by the first
defendant giving of some properties to P.W.1 and his wife, second plaintiff. The
very fact that since 1970 the relations between P.W.1, second plaintiff and
D.W.1 are strained is very clearly seen from the admitted document i.e., the
Inland letter written by P.W.1 to Rajareddy on 26-2-1980 from Delhi wherein he
had clearly mentioned that since 1970 to 1980 he failed to get love and
affection from D.W.1.  In this case, when the mother D.W.1 takes the plea that
so and so (second Plaintiff) is not her daughter, then in the light of the
documents produced by the defendants, which are all about 18 years and 11 years 
prior to the filing of the suit and as well as from the contents of the letter
by P.W.1 himself, it leaves no doubt for the court to reach a conclusion that
the plaintiffs failed to show that the second plaintiff was born to D.W.1 and
late Rajareddy and she is their natural daughter."

53.     I am of the considered view that the trial Court on an examination of the
evidence adduced, has rightly come to the conclusion that the second plaintiff
is  a foster daughter of K.R.Rajareddy and the first defendant and not their own
daughter, as claimed by the plaintiffs.  In the circumstances, the first  issue
is answered accordingly and against the plaintiffs.
Re. Issues 2 and 3:
54.     The plaintiffs contends that before the marriage of the first plaintiff on
19-2-1968, there was an agreement to take him as an illatom son-in-law and late
K.R.Raja Reddy executed a document which was  marked, in the case as Ex.A-48.   
By virtue of this,  the first plaintiff tries to establish that the second
plaintiff is the natural daughter  and that she was given in marriage to the
first plaintiff and an agreement was entered into before the marriage agreeing
to give a share in the properties.
55.     The defendants have attacked this document stating that it is a fabricated
one brought into existence by the plaintiffs.  Pertinently,  this document was
brought into light only at the time of filing  the suit.    Even in the
proceeding before the Land Reforms Tribunal, this fact was not stated either by
the first plaintiff or the second plaintiff.  According to     PW-1 i.e. the
first plaintiff  this document  was written by one Venkateshwara Rao Pantulu and
he has also attested the same. A perusal of the document clearly shows that
Venkateshwara Rao pantulu' s name, as a scribe is not mentioned and also his
attestation was not found on the document Ex.A-48.    In these circumstances, it
is apt to refer to certain portions of  depositions made by  PW-1, in his
Examination in chief,  which reads as follows :
"......on 11-11-1967 there was a function held at Kamareddy in the house bearing
number 3-1-10.  I was presented a golden ring, clothes and fruits.  Besides
K.R.Rajaredddy on behlf of my wife and Narayanreddy on my behalf, there were
Yerra Rajreddy, Dammannagari Narayanareddy of Bikhnoor, Keshavreddy of china   
Mallareddy, one Veeraiah political advisor, K.P.Rajareddy president of panchayat
samithi kamareddy, G.Vittalreddy advocate and M.Mallareddy sarpanch of Baswapur  
gram panchayath, Venkateshwar Rao, resident of Demi(v) kamareddy Tq were present   
in that function"................ "One Venkateshwar Rao panthulu had scribed
that agreement.  He also attested the document.  The aforesaid elders had signed
on the said document as attestors.  The date of marriage was fixed as 19-2-1968,
but the date of marriage was not entered in the document"

 56.     The other two attestors were examined and they are PWs.2 & 3.  PW-2, in 
his evidence stated that one Yerra Raja Reddy was the scribe of Ex.A-48 and not
Venkateshwara Rao Pantulu. PW-3 another attestor to this document in his 
evidence also stated that Ex.A-48 was scribed by Yerra Raj Reddy.  P.W.3 further
stated that he  do not know whether Yerra Raja Reddy scribed the document as he 
was sitting inside the house.  The entire evidence of P.Ws.2 and 3 is
inconsistent.   A perusal of the evidence  of PWs.1 to 3, as regards Ex.A.48,
does not inspire the confidence,  apart from the fact that neither it was
published nor mentioned in the land reforms proceedings.   Since the agreement
itself fails, no reliance can be placed on Ex A-48, to have a share in the
property of late K.R. Rajareddy.
57.     Though an observation was made by the trial Court basing on the statement
made by the first plaintiff  that  there is no need to go for discussion on the
validity of Ex A-48, as the plaintiffs did not press into service the said
document and they are only relying upon Ex.A-49 document said to have been 
executed by the first defendant.
58.     On the question as to the truth and validity of the agreement        Ex.A-
49, said to have been executed by the first defendant in favour of the
plaintiffs,  the case of the first plaintiff is that he is the Illatom son-in-
law of the family and K.R.Rajareddy agreed to give 1/3rd share in his properties
and executed an agreement to that effect on 11-11-1967 (Ex A-48) and he insisted
K.R.Rajareddy to give the share in the properties in terms of promise made by
him under Ex.A-48.  In this connection, it is worthwhile to refer to the
evidence of PW-1 (first plaintiff)  which reads thus:
".... I asked K.R.Raja Reddy to give specific property to me in accordance with
the agreement Ex A-48, as there was change in the circumstances such as  
transferring Kamal Talkies, godown transferring in the name of first defendant
and because of sale of my agricultural lands for discharging the loans.  I was
demanding Raja Reddy to divide and give me my separate share of property and 
liabilities.  He was promising me that he would divide the properties after
discharge of the debts."

59.     It is the case of the plaintiffs, that K.R.Rajareddy, husband of the first
defendant asked the first defendant to execute the document to give certain
properties to plaintiffs 1 and 2 and thereupon Ex A-49 was executed by the first
defendant, both with reference to her properties and also that of K.R.
Rajareddy. The actual execution of Ex A-49 depends upon the evidence of PWs-1, 
4, 5 and DWs.1 & 8 who are stated to be with K.R. Rajareddy in his last days
prior to his death.
60.     It is an admitted fact that K.R. Rajareddy was seriously sick in February
1981.  As per the evidence of DW-6-Doctor, K.R. Rajareddy was a  diabetic
patient and lost both kidneys.  In the first instance, K.R. Raja reddy was taken
from Kamareddy (his permanent place of residence) to Hyderabad Nursing home at  
Hyderabad for treatment and he was admitted in the said Nursing Home, but  the
Doctors opined that his condition was serious and there is no hope of recovery,
whereupon on 11-2-1981 K.R. Raja Reddy was brought back to Kamareddy by the 1st    
plaintiff and he died on 19-2-1981 and the document Ex.A-49 was said to have
been executed on 14-2-1981 i.e. five days prior to the death of K.R.Rajareddy.
61.     The case of the plaintiffs, as aforesaid, is that Raja Reddy asked the
first defendant to give properties as promised by him under Ex.A-48.  The
condition of K.R. Rajareddy at the time when Ex.A-49 was stated to be executed,
about his health, was spoken to by the first defendant, his wife (DW-1),  and
second defendant, his daughter     (DW-8), supported by the evidence of Dr.
Anjal Reddy, (DW-6), who was attending on him. DW-1 who is wife of K.R. 
Rajareddy deposed regarding the health condition of her  husband as follows :
"My husband was suffering from diabetes and kidney trouble so he was weak as 
such we took him to Hyderabad for treatment, while, in the hospital his
condition was deteriorated and doctors asked us to take him back toKamareddy, 
and we brought him back to Kamareddy.  After 9 days coming from Hyderabad he   
passed away.  On the same day of his bringing from Hyderabad, we informed our 
relatives about his condition.".............
 My husband was not in a position to talk and
identify".............."Dr.Anjalreddy was attending to my husband daily 3 or 4
times.  The atmosphere in the house was very bad due to ailment of my
husband."......
 "It is not true to suggest that he was being treated by Dr.Chandrakanthrao and
Dr Gopalreddy also."
62.     DW-8, the second defendant, in her evidence deposed that her father was
brought to Kamareddy when his condition was serious and at that time her father
was not in conscious state, for about one week prior to his death. She also
deposed that her father was not in a position to talk and all the time lying in
the bed and he was not responding their  calls and was in critical condition
since 10-2-1981. She further categorically deposed that her  father was given
liquid diet for 2 days after he was brought to Kamareddy and thereafter he was
given intravenous fluids.  Dr. Anjal Reddy, DW-6, who treated K.R. Rajareddy
stated in his evidence  that he know K. R. Rajareddy and that he died  in the
month of February, 1981.  It is also useful to quote the relevant portion of the
evidence of DW-6,         Dr. Anjal Reddy, who treated K.R. Rajareddy, which
reads thus:
" .....He was having Diabetes leading to end stage renal failure I was attending
on K.R.Rajareddy and I treated him for about 8 or 10 days in the month of
January, 1981 for renal failure.  As we found that the ailment was leading to
total renal failure I contacted nephrologist at Hyderabad and on his advice we
shifted to Hyderabad........The condition of K.R.Rajareddy was deteriorating and
he was not responding to treatment.  The nephrologist advised us to take
K.R.Rajareddy back to Kamareddy, as there was no hope of survival and he was not 
in favour of putting K.R.Rajareddy on dialysis or to further treatment.
Accordingly K.R.Rajareddy was brought back to Kamareddy.  After K.R.Rajareddy  
was brought back to kamareddy I was informed.  I called on him.  I found his
condition very bad.  He was semi conscious and drowsy.  We administered the same  
drugs as prescribed by Hyderabad nursing home.  Initially K.R.Rajareddy was
given spoon feeding after return to kamareddy.  He was on spoon feeding for
about 2 to 3 days.  Thereafter K.R.Rajareddy was put on
I.V.fluids.(Intravenous.............K.R.Rajareddy was not able to sit or to talk
and he was not recognizing the persons visiting him."
63.     According to the evidence of PW-5, one of the attestors of Ex.A-49 is to
the effect that K.R.Rajareddy was conscious and he was in a position to attest
the document. PW-5 further stated that K.R.Rajareddy did not put his signature
on that document thought he was capable of signing at that time.  He also
further stated that PW-1 (first plaintiff) and his wife also did not put their
signature on Ex.A-49 document.  But if really K.R.Rajareddy was conscious and he
was in a position to execute the document, it is natural that he himself should
have executed the document,  instead of directing the first defendant to execute
the document in favour of both the plaintiffs.  The case of the plaintiffs was
that no relatives were  present including the husband of the second defendant,
at the time of execution of Ex A-49.
64.     It has come in evidence that there were large number of relatives present
with K.R. Rajareddy, during his last days, but none of them were examined to
prove Ex.A-49. In circumstances, the trial Court on close scrutiny of the
evidence of PWs.4 & 5 who are scribe and attestor of Ex.A-49,  observed as
follows:
"PW-4, Raghava Reddy deposed that he knows K.R.Raja Reddy and PW-1 land he also      
know first defendant and further he deposed that Raja Reddy and first defendant
treated him as a close associate (Apthuniga) and that on 14-2-1981 he (PW-4)
went to kamareddy for purchase of fertilizers and he came to know through PW-1
that rajareddy was brought back to Kamareddy and on that PW-4 and 5 both went to 
the house of Rajareddy and there, they found Rajareddy very weak.  PW-4 further
deposed that first defendant (DW-1) asked him to write document relating to
their properties and that he scribed the document as per the directions of the
first defendant and later the contents were read over to first defendant and
thereafter first defendant put her signature on the document and he (PW-4) also
put his signature on it.  PW-4 further deposed that Swaroopa (Defendant No.2)
and PW-4 and one narsimulu also signed on the document.  In the cross 
examination of PW-4 he deposed that when Rajareddy was ill he went to Hyderabad  
to see him but the hospital authorities did not allow him to go nearer to
Rajareddy and as he was in the emergency ward and that he could see Rajareddy  
from out side the room of the hospital and returned home.  He further deposed in
his cross examination that he does not know for what ailment Rajareddy was being
treated at Hyderabad and he further deposed that before the document ex A-49 was
executed Rajareddy and first defendant talked together but he does not know what
was discussed by them.  He further deposed that he can not identify the
relatives of K.R.Rajareddy and in his cross examination, he was shown DW-5
husband of second defendant and asked to identify him and he said that he does
not know him.  The learned counsel for the defendant taking me although these
points elicited in the cross examination about PW-4 not knowing as to what was
the ailment of Rajareddy and that he was not in a position to identify even the
son-in-law of Rajareddy and in such a case, he (PW-4) cannot be taken as a close
associate of Rajareddy and first defendant and what all he deposed with regard
to the execution of Ex A-49 can not be believed.  The learned counsel for the
defendant further submitted that PWs 4 and 5 were not invited by K.R. Rajareddy
and the first defendant for execution of the document Ex.A-49 but these two
persons just happened to visit Rajareddy as a formal visit and it is said that
they were asked to scribe the document and also to attest the document as a
witness.  According to PW-4 it is first defendant who asked him to scribe Ex.A-
49,  but  according to PW-5 it was Rajareddy who asked PW-4 to scribe the
document.  According to PW-4, he came to Kamareddy for purchase of fertilizers
even though his village Baswapur is very near to the Ramayampet where there are
fertilizer shops available (as per the evidence of the PW-5).  Rajareddy was
seriously ill when he was brought back to Kamareddy on 11-2-1981.  He was 
brought back since the Doctors lost hope of his survival and according to DW-6
Dr.K.Anjal Reddy the condition of Rajareddy was critical after he was brought
back to Kamareddy and just he survived for eight day i.e. from 11-2-1981 to 19-
2-1981.  It is not the case where late Rajareddy wanted to execute a will as he
has no hope of his life and it is not the case where the relations between the
plaintiffs and defendants and Rajareddy were very cordial  and just for
settlement of properties, document was thought of being executed by first
defendant and above all when DW-1 is executing a document in favour of PW-1 
whereby some of the properties in which second defendant and her husband can 
also have a claim, were given to PW-1, then in such a case, it is necessary that
the elders and relatives from the side of Rajareddy were to be made present when
such a document was executed and at the same time, it is but natural to take
signatures of the second defendant as well as her husband Rama Krishna Reddy  
(DW-5) on Ex.A-49 so as to avoid  future complications.  But this was not done
so.  The document Ex.A-49 was said to be scribed by a person who has no  
knowledge even about the family members of Rajareddy and was attested by a  
person who just happened to see Rajareddy on courtesy visit.  Both these witness
PW-4 and 5 were not summoned by Rajareddy and first defendant for the purpose of 
executing Ex.A-49 but only after their arrival, at the house of Rajareddy it is
said that the development took place and accordingly first defendant executed
Ex.A-49 as a last wish and will of Rajareddy in giving some properties to PW-1
and second plaintiff.  The plaintiffs in order to show that Rajareddy was doing
well and was in a position to give instructions to others in dealing with
properties and also ingoing for settlement of his properties in the persons in
whom he was interested, got examined by one Dr.Gopalreddy (PW-6).  According to  
PW-6, Rajareddy after being shifted to Kamareddy was being treated by him along
with Dr.Eshwerdas, Dr.Anjalreddy and Dr.Chandrakanth Rao and according to him, 
Rajareddy was coherent and conscious and was in a position to identify others.
Here the learned counsel for the defendant submits that the introduction of
Dr.Gopalreddy as a person who treated Rajareddy during his last days is not
being mentioned in the plaint or in the rejoinder but it was only introduced in
the evidence of PWs 4 and 5.  Even according to these two persons, Rajareddy
himself said that he was taking treatment from Dr.Gopalreddy.  The very way in
which PW-4 explained and introduces Dr.Gopalreddy as the person who treated  
Rajareddy seems to be absurd as it is not his personal knowledge that
Dr.Gopalreddy treated Rajareddy but it was Rajareddy himself informed PW-4 that
he was being treated by Dr.Gopalreddy"

65.     In the evidence of first defendant (DW-1), she categorically denied  the
execution of Ex A-49 and deposed that she never executed any document.  She  
stated in her evidence that Ex.A-49 is a fabricated document. She categorically
denied the suggestion that Ex.A-49 records the wish of  her husband regarding
giving share in the properties mentioned therein and that it is a true document
and that she is denying the document malafidely in order to avoid giving a share
to the plaintiffs as mentioned therein.  At the time of giving evidence, DW-1
was 80 years old, and because of her old age she deposed that she cannot
identify her signature, in view of defect in sight.   The commissioner cum
advocate also made an observation that the witness expressed her inability to
sign on the statement, because, of her eye problem and weakness in fingers,
therefore she put her right hand thumb impression on her statement in my
presence. 
66.     The evidence of the second defendant (DW-8) is that she did not attest any
document at all.  DW-8 in her evidence stated  thus:
"...it is not true to suggest that my father distributed the properties among
the parties to the suit under Ex.A-49 and for that myself and my mother put our
signatures on that document."...
"There is no truth in the allegation that PW-4&5 came to my father and talk to
him and on my fathers instructions my mother asked PW-4 to scribe a document  
(Ex.A-49) and that my mother and myself put our signatures as witnesses."

67.      DW-8 denied her signature on Ex.A-49.   No attempt has been made to send  
the document to any handwriting Expert.     No steps were taken to get Ex A-49
registered immediately or soon there after execution of the document on 14-2-
1981.  No explanation has been offered in this regard.








Even after the death of K.R.Rajareddy on 19-2-1981; no attempt has been made to
get the document presented for registration.  The said document has not seen the
light of the day, except on the date of filing of the suit.     The trial Court,
on evidence, found that the first defendant is in exclusive possession of all
the suit schedule properties and enjoying the same and that the plaintiffs were
never associated with the said properties.  The first defendant is receiving the
rents, paying revenue and other taxes and submitting income tax returns and
paying income tax.  Admittedly, the plaintiffs in their Rejoinder mentioned that
the first defendant is enjoying the rents since 1986.
68.     From the above evidence, it follows that K.R. Rajareddy was semi-conscious
at that time, therefore  the question of his directing the first defendant to
give properties, not only pertaining to him, but also the properties of first
defendant seems to be unbelievable.
69.     PW-1  admits that  he  wrote Ex B-2, when he was mentally upset, because 
of some disputes between his wife and his mother-in-law".  Ex B-2 was written by
first plaintiff from Delhi on 26-2.1980, wherein he said "Even after not getting
love and affection from aunty from 1970-1980, they performed their duty
properly.  But in future her son-in-law and daughter should perform.  There is
also clinching documentary evidence showing inter alia that there are disputes
between the parties.  Further, in the suit filed by the Bank (OS No.133 of 1983)
Ex B-41 dated  31-10-1983,  it was mentioned that "during the last days of
K.R.Raja Reddy and after his death, disputes have arisen between defendant
Nos.3,8 and 7 on one side and defendants 2,6, on the other side due to which,
the Khandasari Factory is not being run efficiently."  In the written statement
Ex A-32, dated 19-1-1985, filed by the present plaintiffs, in the said suit, it
was admitted with regard to the disputes.  It clearly shows that there are
strained relations between the parties and as such the first defendant agreeing
to give lion share of her properties appear to be improbable and incredible.
70.     The second plaintiff who claims to be the elder daughter of the first
defendant and K.R. Raja Reddy, she had not come into the witness box to depose 
that properties were given to her by her mother, DW-1, out of love and
affection.  She was major at the time of the alleged execution of     Ex.A-49.
The scribe of Ex A-49, examined as PW-4, in his evidence stated that the first
defendant handed over Ex.A-49 to her elder daughter, the second plaintiff, by
name Sunanda and in view of this statement, it was imperative that the second
plaintiff should have been examined, herself, to speak about the facts about the
alleged execution of Ex A-49 and also due execution by the first defendant.   In
this view of the matter the decisions relied on by the learned counsel for the
appellants BASIREDDY vs.STATE OF AP1,  K. THIRUPAL REDDY vs. STATE2, P. LAKSHMI            
REDDY v. L. LAKSHMI REDDY3 and other similar decisions  to show that for the  
validity of illatom adoption, it is not necessary that agreement to give any
property should be evidenced by a written document much less by a registered
document, as illatom adoption is a creature of custom and the agreement to give
a share need not be in writing,  are not applicable to the facts of the present
case, as curiously in this case, the contention of the plaintiffs that second
plaintiff is the natural daughter of  K.R. Rajareddy and first defendant itself
is not proved.
71.     For all the reasons stated above, the I do not see any ground to dislodge
the findings arrived at by the trial Court  that Ex A-49 is not true and valid
and the plaintiffs are not in joint possession of the property and as such the
suit cannot be maintained for partition and separate possession of the suit
schedule property.  In the circumstances, the second and third issues are
answered accordingly and against the plaintiffs.
Re. Issue No.4:

72.     This issue was framed  on the plea of the defendants that the suit is
barred by limitation. The suit was filed by the plaintiffs basing on the
documents Ex.A-48 dated 11-11-1967 and Ex.A-49 dated 14-02-1981.  Subsequently    
the plaintiffs did not press the Ex.A-48.  The entire claim is on the basis of
Ex.A-49. Even according to the plaintiffs, the first defendant was not inclined
to give any share in the properties and enjoying the rents in respect of the
properties since 1986. As rightly observed by the trial Court, denial to give
share in the properties in question was made known to the plaintiffs in the year
1986 itself and therefore the suit filed by the plaintiffs in the year 1994 is
barred by limitation under Article 113 of the Limitation Act, 1963 and,
therefore,  this issue is also answered accordingly and against the plaintiffs.
73.     For the foregoing discussion, I do not see any merit in this appeal and
the appeal is accordingly dismissed. No order as to costs.

?1 1987 (1) APLJ 276 
2 1978 (1) ALT NRC 5 
3 AIR 1957 SC 314  

