

THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE D.S.R. VARMA AND THE HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE G. ROHINI              
Family Court Appeal No.11 of 2008 

23-04-2008 

Smt. P. Archana @ Atchamamba     

Varada Siva Rama Krishna  

Counsel for the petitioner: Sri A. Mahadev

Counsel for the respondent: Sri A. Hanumantha Reddy 

:ORDER : (Per Ms. G.Rohini, J) 

        This appeal is  preferred  under Section 19(1)  of Family Courts Act, 1984
against the  order  of the  Family Court, Hyderabad, in O.P.No.757 of 2005,
dated 12.01.2007.

        The wife, whose application under Section 25 of the Hindu Marriage Act,
1955, for maintenance of Rs.4,000/- per month or in the alternative permanent
alimony of Rs.5,00,000/- was dismissed, is the  appellant.  The respondent
herein is the appellant's husband.  For the sake of convenience, the parties
shall hereinafter be referred to as the wife and husband respectively.

The facts, in brief, are as under :
The wife initially filed O.P.No.766 of 2003 in the Family Court, Hyderabad under
Section 13 (1)(ia) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 seeking divorce  on the
ground of  cruelty.   Though the husband contested the petition,  on
appreciation of the evidence adduced by both the parties, the Family Court, by
order dated 6.10.2004,  allowed O.P.No.766 of 2003  and dissolved the marriage
by way of decree of divorce.

It is to be noted that  prior to filing of O.P.No.766 of 2003 the wife initiated
criminal proceedings  against the husband for the alleged offence  under Section
498-A of the Indian Penal Code  as well as Sections 4 and 6 of the Dowry
Prohibition Act. However, the said proceedings ended in a compromise under which
the wife and husband agreed  to take divorce by consent  by filing a petition
under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955.  The husband also agreed to
pay Rs.70,000/- to the wife towards  the value of the gold ornaments and
pasupukumkuma presented to her  by her parents at the time of the marriage,
apart from a further sum of Rs.30,000/-  towards permanent alimony.  The said
settlement dated 19.2.2003 was reduced into writing.

Pursuant to the said Memorandum of Settlement, though a petition under Section
13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 was filed on 16.4.2003, since the husband
resiled no decree could be passed and therefore the wife was constrained to file
O.P.No.766 of 2003 under Section 13 (1) (ia) of the Hindu Marriage Act seeking
divorce on the ground of cruelty.   As mentioned above, the said Original
Petition was allowed by order dated 6-10-2004 granting a decree of divorce.

Pending O.P.No.766 of 2003 the wife also filed  I.A.No.540 of 2003 seeking
recovery of Rs.1,00,000/-  agreed to be paid by the husband under the Memorandum 
of Settlement dated 19.2.2003 which was marked as Ex.P-5. Though the husband in  
his counter contended that his signatures on  Ex.P-5 were obtained by coercion
and threat, the Court below  disbelieved the same   and while granting decree of
divorce  allowed  I.A.No.540 of 2003  by a separate order on 6.10.2004.
However, having regard to the fact that  pursuant to    Ex.P-5 Settlement  the
husband had already paid Rs.35,000/- to the wife by way of demand draft, the
Court below directed payment of the balance amount of Rs.65,000/- to the wife
along with interest at 6% per annum from the date of the order  till the date of
realization within four months.

Subsequently,  the wife filed a fresh petition i.e., O.P.No.757  of 2005 before
the Family Court, Hyderabad under Section 25 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955
seeking maintenance at the rate of Rs.4,000/- per month  or in the alternative
for payment of Rs.5,00,000/- towards permanent alimony pleading that she was
solely dependent on her parents after divorce and that her father had retired
from the service and her mother  was bedridden   with paralysis and that  the
meager pension  being received  by her father  was not sufficient for her
survival.  Thus, she prayed for enhanced maintenance   in the changed
circumstances. 

The husband filed a detailed counter opposing the claim in O.P.No.757 of 2005
contending inter alia that since he had already paid Rs.65,000/- in compliance
with the direction in I.A.No.540 of 2003 together with interest towards full and
final settlement of her claim for permanent alimony,  the petition for further
maintenance  was not maintainable and untenable. 

Both the parties adduced evidence to substantiate their respective claims.  The
wife  got herself  examined as P.W.1 and marked copies of the order in
I.A.No.540 of 2003, dated 6.10.2004 and the  Memorandum of Settlement, dated 
19.2.2003, as Exs.P-1 and P-2 respectively.

Having considered the facts and circumstances of the case, particularly  Ex.P-2
settlement whereunder it was agreed between the parties that there should not be
any future claim against each other as well as the admitted fact that the wife
had already received  the agreed amount of Rs.30,000/- towards permanent
alimony, the Family Court  held that  Section 25 of the Hindu Marriage Act had
no application  and accordingly  dismissed  O.P.No.757 of 2005 by order dated
12.1.2007.

The said order dated 12.1.2007  is under challenge in this Appeal filed by the
wife.

We have heard the learned counsel for both the parties in detail.

The learned counsel for the Appellant while submitting that the order under
Appeal is erroneous contended that a decree for maintenance in terms of
compromise between the parties is not a bar to maintain  an application under
Section 25(2) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955  if there are changed
circumstances.  In support of his submission, the learned counsel cited a
decision of a Division Bench  of this Court in CHIMALAKONDA AMBAYAMMA (DIED) vs.      
CHIMALAKONDA GANAPATHI1.        

On the other hand, the  learned counsel for the respondent at the outset raised
an objection as to the maintainability of the Appeal  under Section 19 (1) of
the Family Courts Act, 1984  contending  that  sub-section (2) of Section 19
expressly  bars an appeal  from a decree or order passed  with the consent of
the parties.

The learned counsel  while relying upon the decisions of the High Court of
Punjab and Haryana  in GURMAIL SINGH vs. RAMANJEET KAUR2 and MANJIT SINGH vs.           
SAVITA KIRAN3  further contended that  having  accepted   the permanent alimony 
of Rs.30,000/- in terms of compromise   in full and final settlement of her
claim for maintenance,   the  Appellant  cannot maintain  a fresh petition
purportedly under Section 25 (2) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (for short,
'the Act').

At the outset, we would like to make it clear that  the order under Appeal i.e.,
the  order in O.P.No.757 of 2005, dated 12.01.2007,  is an order on contest and
not a consent order as claimed by the learned counsel for the respondent.  A
mere perusal of the said order shows that the matter was decided on
appreciation of the evidence adduced by both the parties.  May be that the
Court below held that  in view of Ex.P-2 settlement between the parties, the
wife cannot maintain an application   under Section 25  of the Act, however  by
no stretch of imagination the same can be treated as an order passed with the
consent of the parties.   As noticed above, O.P.No.757 of 2005 was contested by
the husband by filing a counter and both the parties adduced evidence in support
of their respective claims and after due enquiry the order under Appeal was
passed rejecting the wife's claim for maintenance. Hence, the bar under sub-
section (2) of Section 19 is not attracted and the preliminary objection raised
by the learned counsel for the respondent as to the very maintainability of the
present appeal  is untenable.

Now, coming to the merits of the case,  having regard to the submissions made by
the learned counsel for the parties,  the only point that arises for our
consideration is whether  the wife/Appellant is disentitled to make or estopped
from making an application under Section 25 (2) of the Act seeking further
maintenance  in view of Ex.P-1 earlier order passed in I.A.No.540 of 2003 in
O.P.No.766 of 2003, dated 6.10.2004. 
        
A copy of Ex.P-1 Order in I.A.No.540 of 2003, dated 6.10.2004  has been placed
before us.  A reading of the said order shows that  the application was filed by
the wife  for recovery of Rs.70,000/- presented by her parents towards
pasupukumkuma  at the time of marriage apart from Rs.30,000/- towards permanent  
alimony agreed to be paid under Ex.P-2 - Memorandum of Understanding.  The said 
application was opposed by the husband by filing a counter   contending that he
did not receive Rs.70,000/- at the time of the marriage. He also  denied   his
liability under  Ex.P-2 - Memorandum of Understanding alleging that his
signatures on Ex.P-2 were obtained by coercion.

  The Court below, after considering the  rival claims, while recording a
finding that the husband  had executed Ex.P-2 Memorandum of Understanding  
voluntarily, held that  the husband was liable to pay  the amount as claimed by
the wife. It is not in dispute that in compliance with the said order the entire
amount  payable to the wife, including Rs.30,000/- towards permanent alimony
agreed under Ex.P-2 settlement was paid by the husband. 

In the circumstances, the husband contended before the Court below that  the
wife who had already received Rs.30,000/-  in full and final settlement of her
claim for maintenance was not  entitled to make any further claim for
maintenance on any ground whatsoever. Having accepted the said contention,  the
Court below dismissed O.P.No.757 of 2005 holding that the wife cannot maintain
an application under Section 25 of the Act claiming further maintenance from the
husband. 

Before examining the correctness of the said order, it is necessary to extract
Section 25 of the Hindu Marriage Act which provides for grant of permanent
alimony and maintenance  by the Court exercising jurisdiction under the Act :
"25. Permanent alimony and maintenance :- (1) Any Court exercising jurisdiction
under this Act may, at the time of passing any decree or at any time subsequent
thereto, on application made to it for the purpose by either the wife or the
husband, as the case may be, order that the respondent shall  pay to the
applicant  for her or his maintenance and support such gross sum or such monthly
or periodical sum  for a term not exceeding the life of the applicant as, having
regard to the respondent's  own  income and other party, if any, the income and
other property of the applicant the conduct of the parties and other
circumstances of the case, it may seem to the Court to be just, and any such
payment may be secured, if necessary, by a charge on the immoveable property of 
the respondent.

(2)      If the Court is satisfied that there is  change in the circumstances of
either party at any time after it has made an order under sub-section (1) it may
at the instance of  either party, vary, modify or rescind any such order in such
manner as the Court may deem just. 

(3)      ...    ...     ....    .....   ....    ...."   


        As could be seen, Section 25 (1) of the Act  provides for  grant of  a
gross sum or  monthly or periodical sum  towards maintenance on an application
made by the wife or husband   for a term not exceeding the life of the applicant
taking into consideration the factors specified thereunder.  Sub-section (1) of
Section 25 makes it clear that such an order may be passed  by the Court
exercising the jurisdiction  under the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955  at the time of
passing any decree  or at any time subsequent thereto. In other words, grant of
maintenance under Section 25 (1) is incidental to the decree granting
substantial relief under the Act.   Sub-section (2) of Section 25 provides that
if the Court is satisfied that there is a change in the circumstances of either
party at any time after granting maintenance under sub-section (1), the Court
may at the instance of either party vary, modify or rescind such order passed
under sub-section (1).

It needs no reiteration that the object of granting maintenance under Section 25
(1) is to enable    the applicant, either the wife or the husband who has no
independent income sufficient for her or his support, to maintain her/himself as
per the status and economical condition of the other party.    Sub-section (2)
of Section 25 further empowers the Court to vary or revise the quantum of
maintenance granted under sub-section (1) if there is any change in the
circumstances of the parties.  On a combined  reading of sub-sections (1) & (2),
it is clear that the right of maintenance  is a continuing right even after a
decree is granted under the Act and the quantum of maintenance  is variable from
time to time if there is change in the circumstances of either party.

In the instant case permanent alimony as agreed between the parties was granted
to wife while granting a  decree of divorce and the same was complied with.  The
said order passed in I.A.No.540 of 2003, dated 6.10.2004, was admittedly made
under sub-section (1) of  Section  25 of the Act. If that be so, it is always
open to the wife to seek enhancement of maintenance under Section 25 (2)
provided the changed circumstances  are established to the satisfaction of the
Court.  Ex.P-2 settlement under which the wife  agreed not to claim any further
maintenance, in our opinion does not preclude the Court to exercise the
discretion conferred under sub-section (2) of Section 25 of the Act if the Court
is satisfied  as to change in the circumstances of the wife.

In similar circumstances,  while dealing with a matter arising under Section 25
of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956, a Division Bench of this Court
in CHIMALAKONDA AMBAYAMMA (DIED)   (1 supra)  held that notwithstanding the      
agreement by the applicant not to claim  higher rate of maintenance    she would
be entitled to  enhanced maintenance if there was a material change  in the
circumstances. 

However,  the  learned counsel for the respondent sought to distinguish the
above decision  on the ground that  sub-section (2) of Section 25 of the Hindu
Marriage Act, 1955 does not contain the word 'agreement' whereas Section 25 of
the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956 expressly provided for alteration
of maintenance whether  fixed by a decree of Court or by agreement.

For proper appreciation, Section 25 of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act,
1956, may be extracted hereunder :
"25. Amount of maintenance may be altered on change of circumstances :- The 
amount of maintenance, whether fixed by a decree of Court or by agreement,
either before or after the commencement of this Act, may be altered subsequently
if there is a material change in the circumstances justifying such alteration."


It is true that Section 25 (2) of the Hindu Marriage Act does not specifically
include  the expression 'agreement'. However, keeping in view the very
intendment and object of Section 25 of the Act, we are of the opinion that   the
claim  for enhanced maintenance  cannot be  rejected merely on the ground  that
there was a settlement between the parties under which the applicant agreed not
to make any further claim for maintenance. Such an interpretation would defeat
the very object of  Section 25 of the Act. While considering an application
under Section 25 (2) of the Act, in our opinion,  the only criteria should be
whether  there is any change in the circumstances justifying the enhancement of
compensation.    Whether the earlier order under Section 25 (1) of the Act
granting maintenance  was  an agreed order or an order on contest is immaterial
since  the right to maintenance under Section 25 of the Act is a continuing
right variable from time to time. Such discretion conferred on the Court under
sub-section (2) of Section 25  to vary the maintenance awarded under sub-section
(1) of Section 25 in the changed circumstances cannot be restricted   and the
substantive right conferred under the statute cannot be denied to a party merely
on the ground of an agreement contra between the parties.  As a matter of fact,
such agreement defeating the right of maintenance provided under a statute
being contrary to public policy  is not a valid contract and therefore  cannot
operate as a bar to exercise the jurisdiction conferred under Section 25 (2) of
the Act.
Even otherwise, the wife/appellant  in the present case was paid maintenance by
virtue of an order passed by the Court in I.A.No.540 of 2003, dated 6.10.2004
but not by agreement between the parties. May be that  the said  order was in
terms of Ex.P2 settlement, but once  an order is passed recording the terms of
settlement it becomes a decree of Court.  It is also relevant to note that sub-
section (2) of Section 25 of the Act either expressly or by necessary
implication  does not draw any distinction between an  order on contest and an
agreed order.

Hence, viewed from any angle, the Court below  committed an error in holding
that  O.P.No.757 of 2005 was not maintainable  in view of the Ex.P-1  order in
I.A.No.540 of 2003.

The decision of the High Court of Punjab & Haryana in GURMAIL SINGH'S case (2  
supra), cited by the learned counsel for the respondent, has no application to
the facts and circumstances of the present case, and therefore  is of no
assistance to uphold  the contention of the respondent.  So far as the other
decision rendered by a learned single Judge in MANJIT SINGH'S case         (3
supra)  is concerned, we are unable to agree with the ratio that the Court may
decline to grant maintenance to a wife who bartered away her right to
maintenance through an agreement.  The reasons for our disagreement have already 
been mentioned in the above paras.

For the aforesaid reasons, we are of the view that the Court below ought not to
have dismissed O.P.No.757 of 2005 at the threshold without making an enquiry
into the correctness of the  wife/appellant's plea as to the change of
circumstances.  The order under Appeal in having declined to exercise the
jurisdiction under Section 25 (2) of the Act merely on the basis of Ex.P-1 order
is erroneous and cannot be sustained.

Accordingly, the order under appeal is hereby set aside  and the matter is
remanded to the Court below for consideration afresh  in the light of the
observations made above and pass appropriate orders in accordance with law.

In the result, the Appeal is allowed. No costs.

?1 1969 (1) An.W.R. 41 = AIR 1969 AP 213  
2 2007 (1) HLR  (Punjab & Haryana) 495 
3 AIR 1983 (P & H) 281 

