

THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE V.V.S. RAO AND THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE SAMUDRALA                
Crl.A. No.1720 of 2006

05-03-2010 

Gorre Dharma Reddy and 2 others  

State rep. By Sub Divisional Police Officer, Karimnagar, rep by the Public
Prosecutor 

Counsel for the Petitioner : Sri K. Venu Madhav

Counsel for the  Respondent:  Public Prosecutor

:JUDGMENT: (per Hon'ble Sri Justice Samudrala Govindarajulu) 

        This appeal is filed by the accused Nos.1 to 3 against Judgment dated
29.11.2006 passed by the III Additional Sessions Judge, Karimnagar in S.C.No.239
of 2006 by which the lower court convicted A-1 to A-3 under Section 304B IPC and
sentenced them to imprisonment for life; convicted them under Section 498A IPC
and sentenced them to rigorous imprisonment  for three years and fine of
Rs.1,000/- each; convicted them under Section 3 of the Dowry Prohibition Act and
sentenced them to rigorous imprisonment for five years and fine of Rs.1,65,000/-
each; and convicted them under Section 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act and
sentenced them to rigorous imprisonment for two years and fine of Rs.500/- each;
and also directed that total fine amount of Rs.4,95,000/- imposed under Section
3 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, shall be paid to P.W.1 towards compensation.

        It is alleged that about six months prior to date of the offence, marriage
of Anitha with A-1 was performed and that at the time of marriage, P.W.1 father
of Anitha gave Rs.5,00,000/-, Hero Honda Motor cycle, 12 tolas of gold, half
tola of gold ring and wrist watch to A-1 and gave Rs.25,000/- towards
'Adapaduchu Katnam'.  A-2 and A-3 are parents of A-1.  A-1 was working as
teacher in private school viz., Gnana Jyothi in his village Sreeramulapalli of
Kamalapur Mandal.  It is alleged that  after two months of marriage, A-1 to A-3
started harassing Anitha demanding to bring additional dowry of Rs.5,00,000/- or
Ac.3.00 of land located road side in Mucherla Nagaram village of her parents and
that about four months ago they drove her out of house, when Anitha came to her
parents' house and narrated the harassment and that when P.W.1 along with his
brother P.W.6 and P.W.16 took Anitha to the accused and enquired, A-1 to A-3 
bluntly asked them to pay Rs.5,00,000/- or give Ac.3.00 of land as additional
dowry and that P.W.1 assured them to fulfil their demand by Ugadi festival and
left the deceased in  house of the accused.  It is further alleged that on
01.11.2004, the deceased informed P.W.1 over telephone about A-1 to A-3 
harassing and ill-treating her mentally and physically with the same demand and
about she informing the same to her sister P.W.4 and brother-in-law P.W-5 over
cell phone.  While so, on 2.11.2004 Anitha committed suicide  by hanging  in
house of the accused, allegedly because of harassment and ill-treatment of the
accused for additional dowry.

        The lower court framed charges against A-1 to A-3 for offences punishable
under Sections 498A, 304B or alternatively 306 IPC and Sections 3 and 4 of the
Dowry Prohibition Act.  A-1 to A-3 pleaded not guilty of the charges in the
lower court.  During trial in the lower court, the prosecution examined P.Ws.1
to 19 and marked Exs. P.1 to P.16 and M.Os., 1 to 4.  Ex.D-1 was marked on 
behalf of the accused.

        When the lower court recorded conviction of A-1 to A-3 under Section 304B
IPC, recording of another conviction against them under Section 498A IPC is not
warranted at all because facts constituting offence punishable under Section
498A IPC are all included in offence punishable under Section 304B IPC.  When
the victim woman dies within seven years of her marriage, then subject to
satisfying other requirements, Section 304B IPC is attracted.  When the victim
dies beyond seven years of her marriage, then first limb of Explanation to
Section 498A IPC applies;  In such a  case, death is by way of suicide, Sections
498A and 306 IPC will be attracted in the place of Section 304 B IPC if  death
of the victim occurred beyond seven years of her marriage.  Therefore, when the
lower court recorded conviction under Section 304B IPC, again convicting the
same accused under Section 498A IPC is not warranted in law. 

        Statutory facts/basic ingredients to attract Section 304B IPC are:-
1. Death of the woman should be caused by burns or  fatal injury or otherwise
than under normal circumstances. 

2. Such death should have occurred within seven years of her marriage.

3. The victim  was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any
relative of her husband

4. Such cruelty or harassment was for or in connection with demand for dowry

5. Such cruelty or harassment coupled with demand  for dowry should be soon 
before her death

                It is contended by the appellants' counsel that marriage of the
deceased Anitha with A-1 took place about eight years prior to her death and not
six months prior to her death.  At this stage itself it may be noted that no
evidence is let in by the accused to show date of marriage.  No doubt, burden is
on the accused to prove facts relating to the offence.  The deceased was aged 19
years by the date of her death.  She was an young girl by that day.  A-1 was
aged 26 years as per age given for A-1 in the charge sheet which was filed on
13.5.2005.  If really marriage of A-1 with Anitha took place eight years prior
to her death, then it would be a child marriage in respect of both of them. Not
only P.Ws.1 to 6 who are parents, brother, sister, brother-in-law and paternal
uncle of the deceased but also P.W.16 who is friend of P.W.1 deposed that
marriage of the deceased was performed six months prior to her death. Their
evidence was not challenged in their cross examination on this aspect.  P.W.9 is
a neighbour and cousin of A-2.  he says that marriage between the deceased and
A-1 took place  two or three years prior to death of the deceased.  P.W.10 is
Washerman  of the accused.  He says  that marriage of the deceased was performed  
six months prior to her death.  Thus, evidence on record undoubtedly prove that
marriage of the deceased  Anitha with A-1 took place six months prior to her
death and at any rate, within seven years of her death.

        There is no dispute at this stage that  the deceased committed suicide by
hanging.  P.W.18 who is the Civil Surgeon in Government Hospital, Huzurabad and
who conducted autopsy  over dead body of the deceased opined in Ex.P-12 post- 
mortem report and in Ex.P-14 final opinion that the deceased died due to
asphyxia  resulted  from hanging. P.W.7 who is the Mandal Revenue Officer,
Kamalapur who conducted inquest  on dead body of the deceased in  presence of 
panch witnesses under  cover of Ex.P-3 inquest  Panchanama deposed  that he and  
panch witnesses opined  that the deceased committed suicide because of ill-
treatment to her by A-1 to A-3 for the sake of additional amount of
Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of land.  Thus, it is proved that the deceased Anitha
died by way of suicide i.e., otherwise than under normal circumstances.  It was
not a natural death.

        The alleged demand for additional dowry of Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of
land  was spoken to by P.Ws. 1 to 6 and 16.  P.Ws.8 to 10 who are neighbours and 
washerman of the accused turned hostile to the prosecution.  It is their
evidence that A-1 and the deceased were living amicably and that they do not
know reason for death of the deceased.  For outward appearance, there may or may 
not be quarrels among family members.  Simply because there were no quarrels 
which were not  noticed by neighbours and washerman, one cannot rule out the
same.  Only family members and relations who were informed about  the same will
be knowing whether there were any quarrels or harassment or cruelty within the
family.

        It is evidence of P.W1 that A-1  and the deceased lived happily for two
months after their marriage and thereafter quarrels took place and that he came
to know through his daughter about A-1 to A-3 demanding additional amount of
Rs.5,00,000/- and that his daughter informed the same when she visited his
house.  P.W.1 says  that he took P.W.16 and P.W.6 to Sreeramulapalli where A-1  
to A-3 reside together and that the elders and himself advised A-1 and the
deceased to live amicably and that he (P.W.1) promised to provide the amount or
otherwise  would give  Ac.3.00 of land by Ugadi festival.  He says that
thereafter A-1 and the deceased lived cordially for three months and that P.W.2
who is the eldest daughter  came to know  that there were disputes and quarrels
for additional amount, and that 15 days thereafter he received telephonic
message about death of the deceased Anitha.  He says that his daughter committed 
suicide because of mental humiliation made to her by A-1 to A-3 for the sake of
additional amount.  P.W.1 gave Ex.P-1 report to the police on the same day of
death of the deceased.  P.W.17 the then Assistant Sub Inspector of Police,
Kamalapur police station received Ex.P-1 from P.W.1 and registered the same as
case in Crime No.140 of 2004 under Sections 498A, 304B I.P.C and Sections 3 and  
4 of the Dowry Prohibition  Act and issued Ex.P-11 F.I.R.  P.W.17 and P.W.19
(Sub Divisional Police Officer, Karimnagar) investigated into the case.
Evidence of P.W.1 is consistant with averments in Ex.P-1 report.  In cross
examination P.W.1 deposed that he came to know for the first time two months
after marriage of the deceased with A-1 about demand for additional amount and
that he went to house of the accused after coming to know about the demand and 
brought his daughter to his house and that ten days thereafter he took P.W.6 and
P.W.16 and the deceased to house of the accused and questioned them.  He further 
says that on the next day of he receiving telephone message from P.W.4, he
received death message of the deceased.  It is evidence of P.W.2 that after two
months of marriage,A-1 to A-3 ill-treated, beat and abused the deceased
demanding additional amount of Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of land and drove the
deceased out of their house when the deceased came to their house and that on
the same day P.Ws.1, 6 and 16 along with the deceased went to house of  the 
accused.  She further says that on one day prior to her death, the deceased
telephoned to them and informed about the accused ill-treating her by abusing
and beating for getting the promised amount of Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of land
and that her daughter asked her to send P.W.1.  In cross examination, P.W.2
deposed that there is no telephone in their house and there is no telephone in
house of the accused and that they have not received any telephone call directly
from the deceased, but P.W.5 used to receive calls from the deceased.  Even
though there was no telephone facility in house of the accused, there is S.T.D
booth everywhere  in this country including remote villages.  Irrespective of
telephone calls or cell phone calls, according to P.Ws.1 and 2, the deceased
informed them about harassment meted out to her by A-1 to A-3 for the sake of
additional amount of Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of land.  P.W.3 is elder brother
of the deceased.  He says that one day prior to her death i.e., on 01.11.2004
they received telephone message from the deceased about the accused ill-treating
her for getting additional amount of Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of land.  In cross
examination, he deposed that Sammireddy who is their neighbour received 
telephone call about death of the deceased.  P.W.6 deposed  that six months
after marriage between A-1 and the deceased, she was subjected to cruelty and
that he came to know about ill-treatment through P.W.1 and the deceased when the 
deceased came to house of her parents and that he came to know through the 
deceased that she was ill-treated for getting an amount of Rs.5,00,000/- or
Ac.3.00 of land.  He further says  that thereupon himself, P.W.1 and P.W.16 took
the deceased to  house of the accused and questioned A-1 as to why he beat the
deceased and that A-1 disclosed that he wanted amount, and that they agreed to
provide amount of Rs.5,00,000/- by Ugadi festival.  P.W.16 deposed that two
months after marriage, he received telephone call from P.W.1 about quarrel
taking place between A-1 and the deceased, and the deceased coming to his house  
and that P.W.1 asked him to come to his house and that he went to house of P.W.1 
as the deceased Anitha was there and that when he enquired her she disclosed 
that A-1 to A-3 demanded Rs.5,00,000/- as additional amount and A-1 beat her and
drove her out of his house.  He further says  that that on the same day,  he,
P.W.1 and P.W.6 went to house of the accused and enquired A-1 to A-3 who stated  
that they want Rs.5,00,000/- and unless the said amount is paid they will not be
taking her into their house.  He says that P.W.1 agreed to give the said amount
by Ugadi and that the accused demanded for paying the said amount immediately  
and that they convinced A-1 to A-3 that P.W.1 would pay the said amount by Ugadi
as the amount asked was huge amount.  P.W.4, sister of the deceased deposed that  
she came to know through the deceased about the accused ill-treating her for
additional amount of Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of land and that when the deceased
came to house of her parents, she disclosed about the ill-treatment.  In cross
examination, she deposed that she came to know about ill-treatment to the
deceased two months after the marriage for the first time when she came to her
parents' house.  It is her further evidence that on 01.11.2004, the deceased
telephoned to cell phone of her husband P.W.5 and that she had conversion with
the deceased and that the deceased informed by  phone that the accused were ill-
treating her physically and mentally for getting additional dowry of
Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of land and asked her to convey the same to her parents
and to see that P.W.1 was sent there.  She further says that the deceased was
having fourth month pregnancy.  P.W.5 deposed that he came to know through the 
deceased herself on cell phone conversation that A-1 to A-3 ill-treated her for
getting additional dowry of Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of land.  He says that  he
conveyed the same to P.Ws.1 and 2.  It is his further evidence that on
01.11.2004 he received another telephone call from the deceased Anitha to his
cell phone and that the deceased informed about the accused ill-treating her
mentally and torturing her for getting promised amount or land and that  P.W.4
had also conversation with the deceased on 01.11.2004 through his cell phone and
that both of them went to house of P.Ws.1 and 2 and informed the same to them.
The above evidence of P.Ws.1 to 6 and 16 undoubtedly proved that  A-1 to A-3
were harassing the deceased mentally and physically and were torturing her for
the sake of Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of land.   Therefore, the decisions in
Harjit Singh v. State of Punjab1  and Biswajit Halder @ Babu Halder v. State of
West Bengal2  in which the accused  were acquitted  by the Supreme Court for
want of proof of harassment of the victim for the sake of dowry soon before her
death, hence no application herein.  Evidence of P.Ws.4 and 5 clearly establish
that even one day prior to her death i.e., on 01.11.2004, the deceased expressed
her anguish  and wept saying that the accused were torturing her for the sake of
Rs.5,00,000/- or Ac.3.00 of land.  It is only for that reason, the deceased
committed suicide by hanging inspite of the fact that she was carrying 5th month
pregnancy  as per Ex.P-12 post-mortem certificate.  Therefore, we have no
hesitation to come to the conclusion that the deceased committed suicide because
of cruelty and harassment of A-1 to A-3 towards her since two months after her
marriage with A-1 and even soon prior to her death.  Thus, irrespective of
invoking any presumption under Section 113B of the Evidence Act, the prosecution
was able to prove all the necessary facts constituting offence of 'dowry death'
against A-1 to A-3.  The lower court rightly found A-1 to A-3 guilty of the
offence under Section 304B IPC.

        In so far as offence punishable under Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry
Prohibition Act are concerned, it is evidence of prosecution witnesses to the
effect  that dowry of Rs.5,05,000/-, Hero Honda Motor Cycle, 12 tolas of gold
ornaments, half tola of gold ring were given to A-1 and Rs.25,000/- was given
towards 'Adapaduchu Katnam'.  Naturally there is no documentary proof for the
same.   One cannot  expect any documentary proof for giving of dowry etc.  P.W.1
in cross examination deposed that at the time of 'Varapooja' Rs.50,000/- was
given and that he paid balance dowry at the time of marriage.  He did not  say
from what sources  he could raise so much of money.  P.W.4 deposed in cross 
examination   that her father took Rs.1,00,000/- from them.  P.W.1 deposed  in
cross examination that he purchased gold at Warangal and got prepared the
ornaments and that he has got receipt to show that he purchased gold.  Even
though any such receipt is not filed, in Hindu Marriages one can reasonably
expect giving of gold ornaments by the bride's father to his daughter.  Gold
ornaments are not meant for the bride-groom, except a gold ring.  P.W.2 deposed
in cross examination that she was not present when negotiations or payment or
giving of articles took place and that she did not attend  for 'Varapooja'.
P.W.3 deposed in cross examination that he has not personally participated in
negotiations of marriage and that he does not know how his father secured amount
for performing marriage of the deceased and that he does not have personal
knowledge when the amount was paid and how much amount was paid.  He says that     
P.W.1 did not disclose particulars of the amount paid till death of the
deceased.  P.W.4 deposed in the cross examination that she does not know how her  
father secured remaining amount other than Rs.1,00,000/- taken from them.  She
says  that she was not present in marriage negotiations prior to marriage
between A-1 and the deceased and that her husband P.W.5 was not aware about   
marriage negotiations.  P.W.6 deposed that dowry and articles were given prior
to marriage.  P.W.16 deposed that Rs.50,000/- was paid by the P.W.1 on 
'Varapooja' day and remaining  balance amount  and articles were given by P.W.1
on the date of marriage.  In cross examination, he admits he did not state to
the police about P.W.1 paying Rs.50,000/- at the time of 'Varapooja'.  As
pointed out earlier, A-1 is a resident of Sreeramulapalli village of Kamalapur
Mandal of Karimnagar District.  He was working as teacher in a private school in
that village.  P.W.1 is an agriculturist.  If really P.W.1 paid total dowry of
Rs.5,05,000/- at the time of marriage, having regard to financial status of the
parties and their social position, it would be difficult to believe that the
accused demanded another sum of Rs.5,00,000/- in addition to original dowry of
Rs.5,05,000/-.  The additional amount  demanded by the accused is almost equal
to original agreed dowry amount.  It throws  lot of doubt on payment of original
agreed dowry amount by P.W.1 to the accused.  P.W.1 had to borrow  Rs.1,00,000/-  
from P.Ws.4 and 5 for marriage of the deceased.  The said amount might have been 
utilised by P.W.1 for purchase of gold and other customary articles apart from
incurring marriage expenses.  This Court came to the conclusion that there was
demand for Rs.5,00,000/- by the accused from P.W.1.  The said demand, in our 
opinion,  is nothing but demand for payment of original agreed amount which was
not paid at the time of marriage.  When huge amount of Rs.5,00,000/- was
demanded by the accused, P.W.1 would not have agreed to pay the same or in the  
alternative agreed to give Ac.3.00 of land within four months of marriage, if
really he paid agreed dowry amount of Rs.5,05,000/- to the accused at the time
of marriage.  Therefore, this Court is not inclined to place reliance on P.W.1's
evidence  to the extent of payment of dowry of Rs.5,05,000/- to the accused at
the time of marriage or 'Varapooja'.  Thus, the prosecution could not lead
acceptable evidence to prove offences under Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry
Prohibition Act.  The prosecution could only prove offence punishable under
Section 304B IPC. 

        The offence of 'dowry death' under Section 304B IPC prescribes imposition
of imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than seven years but which
may extend to imprisonment for life.  This is not a case of bride burning.  It
is not a case of homicide.  It is a case of suicide committed by the deceased
because of harassment of A-1 to A-3 to her for the sake of Rs.5,00,000/- or
Ac.3.00  of land.  There are no strong reasons for imposing  maximum punishment
of imprisonment for life in this case.  In the circumstances, we deem it
appropriate in the interest of justice to impose rigorous imprisonment for seven
years instead of imprisonment for life.

        In the result, the appeal is partly allowed setting aside convictions and
sentences passed by the lower court against the appellants 1 to 3/ A-1 to A-3
for offences under Section 498A IPC and Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry
Prohibition Act.    The appeal is partly dismissed confirming  conviction of the
appellants 1 to 3/A-1 to A-3 under Section 304B IPC, but altering sentence of
imprisonment alone from life imprisonment to rigorous imprisonment for seven
years.

?1 2006(2) ALT (Crl.) 33 (SC)
2 2007(2) ALT (Crl.) 162 (SC)

