

THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE V.ESWARAIAH AND THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE B.N.RAO NALLA                   
F.C.A.No.230 of 2008, C.M.A.No.333 of 2002 & A.S.158 of 2002  

28-04-2010 

FCA.No.230 of 2008  
P.Srinivasulu

Hemalatha 

C.M.A.No.230 of 2002 
P.Srinivasulu           ..Appellant

AND  

Hemalatha               ..Respondent 

A.S.No.158 of 2002 
P.Srinivasulu           ..Appellant

AND  

Hemalatha and another   ..Respondents 

For the Appellant: Mr. K.Sitaram

For the Respondent: Mr. B.Narasimha Sarma   

:COMMON JUDGMENT: (per Hon'ble Sri Justice V.Eswaraiah)     

        All these three appeals are filed by the appellant/husband aggrieved by
the orders passed in O.P.1/2003 dated 18.08.2006 and against the common order  
passed in O.P.19/1999 and O.S.19/2001 dated 31.12.2001 on the file of the Family
Court, Kurnool.
        2.  The parties herein are referred to as "husband" and "wife" for the
sake of convenience.
        3.  The husband filed O.P.1/2003 on the file of the Family Court, Kurnool
under Sec.13(1-A)(ii) of Hindu Marriage Act read with under Sec.7(1)(a) of
Family Courts Act seeking divorce against the wife on the ground that there has
been no restitution of conjugal rights between them for a period of one year or
upward after passing of decree of restitution of conjugal rights in O.P.19/1999
dated 31.12.2001.  The said OP No.1/2003 was dismissed by the Court below,  
against which FCA.230/2008 is filed.
        4.  Earlier to filing the OP.1/2003 by the husband, the wife filed
O.P.19/1999 under Sec.9 of the Hindu Marriage Act r/w.Sec.7(1)(a) of Family
Courts Act for restitution of conjugal rights, and also filed O.S.19/2001 under
Sec.18 of the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act for grant of monthly
maintenance @Rs.3,000/- p.m. on the file of the Family Court, Kurnool.  The
Court below delivered a common order in both the O.P. and O.S. filed by the wife
and allowed the same.  Aggrieved by the same, the husband filed CMA.333/2002 and  
A.S.158/2002. 
        5.  The case of the husband in the FCA.230/2008 is that he is physically
handicapped person and is working in APSRTC as a cleaner.  The wife is the
native of Gooty, Ananthapur District and their marriage was performed at Kurnool
on 05.02.1995.  Soon after the marriage, the wife joined the husband and
marriage was consummated and both of them lived together for some time.  From 
the date of marriage, the wife used to humiliate the husband and make fun of his
handicap and disability.  It is stated that from 17.04.1999 there has been no
cohabitation between the husband and wife, and the wife deserted the husband and
therefore, the husband got issued notice to the wife on 17.06.1999.  On
receiving the notice, the wife filed O.P.19/1999 for restitution of conjugal
rights and also filed O.S.19/2001 for maintenance, which were decreed. The Court
below directed the husband to take the wife into his company and provide
conjugal rights.  It is stated that even after passing of the decree in
O.P.19/1999, the wife did not choose to take any steps for joining the company
of the husband and lead conjugal life, and the wife was content with receiving
the maintenance order alone.  Therefore, there has been no marital relationship
in between the husband and wife even after passing of decree for restitution of
conjugal rights in O.P.19/1999, and hence the husband is entitled for a decree
of divorce.
        6.  The wife filed counter denying all the adverse allegations made by the
husband.  It is stated that the wife is always ready and willing to join the
company of the husband.  It is incorrect to state that between 05.02.1995 to
17.04.1999 there was no cohabitation between the husband and wife.  It is stated
that the wife has taken steps to join the company of the husband after passing
of decree in O.P.19/1999, but in fact the husband has not taken any steps to
take her back to his house and lead marital life with her.  It is stated that
the wife filed E.P.6/2003 in O.P.19/1999 for execution of the decree passed in
O.P.19/1999, and therefore, the husband is not entitled for a decree of divorce.
        7.  To prove their respective contentions in O.P.1/2003, on behalf of the
husband, the husband himself was examined as PW 1 and marked Ex.A1 and Ex.C-1.     
On behalf of the wife, the wife herself was examined as RW 1 and marked Exs.B1 
to B7.
        8.  The husband as PW 1 stated that the OP.19/1999 filed by the wife was
decreed against him, but the wife did not display any sincere efforts to
translate the decree into action till 31.12.2002.  After expiry of statutory
period, he filed the O.P.1/2003 for divorce on 04.01.2003.  The wife filed
E.P.2/2002 for realization of costs awarded in O.P.19/1999.  The wife also filed
E.P.6/2003 seeking attachment of properties shown in Col.11 of E.P. for
execution of the decree in O.P.No.19/1999.   In the cross examination the
husband stated that he did not remember as to what was ordered in decree in
O.P.19/1999, and he did not remember if he gave to his advocate the decree
passed in O.P.19/1999 for filing OP for divorce.  He stated that he acted as per
the directions given in the decree in O.P. and as per the said decree he was
directed to take the wife into his company and provide her conjugal rights.  The
husband stated that he personally went to the wife and asked her to come and
live with him, but the wife, her mother, father and brother all drove him away
and threatened him that they would look at the matter in the Court.  The husband
stated that he did not remember the month or date when he went to the wife's
house in the year 2001 and he did not mention the same in his petition.  The
husband categorically admitted that from the beginning the wife is asking him to
take her back to his house and live with her, but he is refusing to do so in
order to seek divorce.  The husband specifically stated that he is not willing
to take back his wife and live with her even if she is willing to join and live
with him.  The husband also admitted that the wife filed E.P.6/2003 stating that
he disobeyed the orders passed by the Court below for restitution of conjugal
rights.
        9.  The wife as RW 1 stated that her OP filed for restitution of conjugal
rights was decreed on 31.12.2001 directing the husband to take her back to his
house and provide her conjugal happiness.  But the husband never cared with the
said order and never made any positive attempts to take her to his company and
live with her.  On the other hand, herself, her parents and brother made several
attempts and tried to persuade the husband to take her back and live with her
happily.  It is stated that the husband and his parents warned the wife that if
she makes any attempt to live with the husband, serious consequences would 
follow.  She got issued a registered notice to the husband on 11.01.2003
requesting him to take her back to his house and live with her, giving conjugal
happiness.  The husband having received the said notice, got issued a reply with
all false allegations, and therefore, she filed E.P.6/2003 for execution of the
decree of restitution of conjugal rights.  It is stated that the husband is not
entitled for decree of divorce as he is alone at fault in not obeying the decree
of restitution of conjugal rights.
        10.  Except the husband and wife, no other persons were examined in
corroborating their respective contentions in O.P.1/2003.
        11.  The wife filed O.P.19/1999 for restitution of conjugal rights and
also filed O.S.19/2001 for maintenance on the file of the Family Court, Kurnool.
The Court below tried both the cases together and recorded common evidence in
O.P.19/1999. 
        12.  On behalf of the wife, the wife herself was examined as PW 1 and got
examined PW 2 in support of her contentions and marked Exs.A1 to A3 and Exs.X-1   
and X-2.  On behalf of husband, the husband himself was examined as RW 1 and got  
examined RW 2 for corroborating his evidence.  No documentary evidence is
adduced on his behalf.
        13.  The court below on considering the oral and documentary evidence
available on record, allowed both the OP.19/1999 and OS.19/2001
        14.  The learned counsel appearing for the husband contends that the wife
is guilty of desertion and she is a quarrelsome lady and always humiliating the
husband and developed aversion towards husband and hence she is not entitled for
restitution of conjugal right.  The learned counsel also contends that the
maintenance awarded in O.P.19/2001 is disproportionate and the husband is not
capable to pay such amount of Rs.3,000/- per month as he was working as a 
Cleaner in APSRTC with a meager salary. 
        15.  The learned counsel appearing for the wife contends that the husband
himself deserted the wife and not allowing her to join him and lead marital
life.  The learned counsel also contends that the husband is capable enough to
pay the maintenance as awarded by the Court below and he got movable and  
immovable properties and getting sufficient rental income.
        16.  The wife as PW 1 in OP.19/1999 stated that after the marriage she
joined the husband and they used to reside in the joint family consisting of the
husband, his three brothers and parents.  Right from the day of her entering the
house of the husband, he began to ill treat her and also used to abuse her in
vulgar language and always insisting her to leave his company.  It is stated
that the other members of the family of the husband also developed dislike
against her and encouraged the husband to discard her.  On 05.07.1995 the
husband and his family members thrown all her belongings and necked her out of
the house, and also seized all her gold ornaments except talibottu chain and a
necklace.  Her mother, father and her maternal uncle came over to Kurnool and
held mediations but the husband did not allow her to enter his house.
Thereafter, the husband got issued a registered notice with all false
allegations for which she gave a suitable reply.  The husband demanded divorce
and no divorce petition is filed and therefore, she was constrained to file
O.P.19/1999 for restitution of conjugal rights.  She also filed OS.19/2001 for
maintenance @ Rs.3,000/- per month.  It is stated that the husband is the member
of joint family and residing with his parents in Tagoornagar, Kurnool.  His
father is a big contractor and possessed properties worth Rs.3 crores.  They
have also real-estate business and he owned 23 houses in Tagornagar. In fact,
the father of the husband himself narrated the above facts at the time of
negotiation of her marriage with the husband. Besides that the father of the
husband also offered to give assets worth of Rs.10,00,000/- and house properties
in her favour.  Apart from that, the husband is getting salary of Rs.4,700/- per
month. 
        17.  PW 2 P.Kesanna was examined on behalf of wife and he stated that to
his knowledge, the father of the husband had purchased assets worth Rs.5 crores
and they are in well to do position.  The husband and wife led amicable family
life for one year in the joint family house and later he came to know that the
husband wanted to get rid of the wife and began to harass her.  Then himself,
one Guruswamy, Sanjeeva Rayudu, Medam Sankarappa, Donthu Venkataswamy of Kurnool        
as elders mediated the issue and persuaded the husband and his parents, but the
parents of the husband did not agree.  In the cross examination PW 2 stated that
the father of the husband got about 15 to 16 houses in Maddurnagar besides house
sites and a building in Veldurthy.
        18.  The husband as RW 1 in OP.19/1999 stated that for a period of 10
months both of them resided in the joint family and later the wife picked up
quarrels with his parents without any just cause and used to proclaim that she
has no liking for the marriage with him.  It is stated that because of the said
quarrels raised by the wife, the husband put up separate family in a rented
house and changed five houses in four years.  It is stated that always the wife
used to say that she has no liking for her husband.  It is stated that his gross
salary is Rs.3,900/- and after deductions he got net salary of Rs.2,901/- only.
The wife is not entitled for restitution of conjugal rights and for maintenance
as she herself deserted the husband.  In the cross examination the husband
stated that there was no need for his parents to take dowry since they are
already well-off.  It is stated that the car in which he came to the court
belongs to his father.  He also admitted that in the reply given by his wife,
she strongly wished to join him for leading marital life.  The husband also
stated that from the beginning himself and his parents were insisting only for
divorce and not for restitution of conjugal rights.  At present the husband, his
brothers and father and grand-father were living together as joint family.
        19.  One D.Venkataswamy was examined as RW 2 in support of the husband and     
also stated with regard to the promises made by the parents of RW 1 at the time
of negotiating the alliance.  In the cross examination, he admitted that he told
the parents of the wife stating that the family of the husband is affluent, rich
and respectable and that the wife will be very comfortable and will live in
happy in their family, and then the parents of the wife did not hesitate to give
their daughter to the husband in spite of his physical condition.  He also
admitted that except once, he never received any complaint about the behaviour
of the wife.  He stated that he did not know whether the father of the husband
has got more than four crores of rupees worth property.  He also stated that he
felt that it would be better for the wife and husband to stay together to lead
happy marital life.
        20.  The evidence available on record in OP.19/1999 goes to show that the
husband is a rich persons and he is a member of the joint family and there was
no fault on the part of the wife.  But the behaviour of the husband and his
family members is indifferent and they are not willing for restitution of
conjugal rights.  The Court below on appreciation of evidence available on
record, rightly allowed the OP.19/1999 and OS.19/2001 filed for restitution of
conjugal rights and for maintenance.
        21.  The learned counsel for the husband submitted that the joint family
properties have been settled and the husband has taken net cash of
Rs.10,00,000/- in lieu of his share in the immovable properties.
        We are of the opinion that there cannot be any such settlement
transferring the immovable properties in favour of other joint family members
without there being any registered partition deed.  It appears that in order to
escape from the liability of payment of maintenance amount they are making such
an attempt.  We are of the opinion that it is always open for the wife to
execute the decree of maintenance by attaching the undivided share of the
properties of the husband.
        22.  In view of the above, we do not see any merits in these two appeals
i.e. CMA.333/2002 and A.S.158/2002 and they are liable to be dismissed with
costs, as the husband himself deserted the wife and neglected to maintain her.
        23.  In so far as the FCA.230/2008 is concerned the Court below having
considered the ground taken by the husband that there has been no restitution of
conjugal rights between the parties for a period of one year or upwards after
passing of decree for restitution of conjugal rights and other grounds about the
cruelty and desertion, rightly held that none of the grounds have been made out
and accordingly dismissed the OP.1/2003 filed by the husband.
        24.  It is the case of the wife that the husband himself was at fault in
disobeying the decree of restitution of conjugal rights, and in fact he has not
been paying the maintenance amount also regularly and therefore, she was
constrained to file O.S.19/2001 for payment of maintenance and after that only
the husband filed O.P.1/2003 seeking divorce.
        We are of the opinion that had the husband obtained a decree of
restitution of conjugal rights, and if the wife failed to join with the husband
within a period of one year, he is entitled to file O.P.under Sec.13(1-A)(ii) of
Hindu Marriage Act seeking dissolution of marriage.  Even if the wife obtains a
decree of restitution of conjugal rights, when the wife failed to join the
husband, then also the husband is entitled to file OP for divorce.  But the
evidence available on record in O.P.1/2003 goes to show that the wife is always
ready and willing to join the company of the husband, and the same is also
admitted by the husband in his cross examination, and therefore, it cannot be
said that the wife was at fault in not joining the husband and lead conjugal
life with him.   Merely because the husband is entitled to file such an
application on the ground that there was no restitution of conjugal rights, we
are of the opinion that the husband cannot take advantage of his own wrong in
not obeying the decree in O.P.19/1999 dated 31.12.2001 and take action for his
advantage.  Under Sec.23 of the Hindu Marriage Act, in any proceedings under the
Hindu Marriage Act if the Courts satisfy that even if the party is entitled for
any relief, he cannot be allowed to take advantage of his own wrong.
        25.  In the cases of Pavuluri Murahari Rao v. Povuluri Vasantha Manohari1
and Hirachand Srinivas Managaonkar v. Sunanda2 the Hon'ble Supreme Court of  
India and this Court held that a defaulting spouse, who has suffered a decree
for restitution of conjugal rights, cannot take advantage of his or her own
wrong because he or she has failed to comply with the decree of restitution of
conjugal rights.  In view of the above ratio, as laid down by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India, we are of the opinion that the husband cannot take a
ground that there was no restitution of conjugal rights even after the decree of
restitution of conjugal right, which was suffered by him stating that the wife
did not join the company of husband and led conjugal life with him.  In fact,
the husband disobeyed the order of the Court below in not allowing the wife to
join him and lead marital life, as admitted in his cross examination.
Therefore, the husband cannot be allowed to take advantage of his own wrong.
26.  For the foregoing reasons, we do not find any merit in FCA.230/2008 and the
same is also liable to be dismissed with costs.
27. Accordingly, all these three appeals viz. FCA.230/2008, CMA.333/2002 and
A.S.158/2002 are dismissed with costs.  However, it is always open for the
parties to reconcile, rejoin and live together, as suggested by
Mr.D.Venktaswamy, elderly caste person, who was examined as RW 2 on behalf of   
husband in OP.19/1999. 

?1 AIR 1984 Andhra Pradesh 54  
2 2001(2) ALD 117 (SC) 

