

THE HONOURABLE SRI JUSTICE B.N. RAO NALLA          
CRIMINAL APPEAL No.653 OF 2004      

11-04-2011 

State, Deputy Superintendent of Police,Anti-Corruption Bureau, Nellore
Range,Nellore 

Goli Madhusudhana Rao   

Counsel for the appellant: Sri Ghani A Musa, Standing Counselcum - Spl. P.P.
for ACB Cases 

Counsel for the respondent:Sri C. Padmanabha Reddy, Sr. Counselfor Sri C.
Praveen Kumar  

:JUDGMENT:   

        The State has preferred this Criminal Appeal assailing the judgment in
C.C. No.9 of 1998 dated 20-10-2003 passed by the learned Special Judge for SPE & 
ACB Cases, Nellore, whereby the learned Special Judge acquitted the respondent -
accused officer for the offences under Sections 7 and 13(2) read with 13(1)(d)
of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (for short "the Act').
        
2.  The case of the prosecution, in brief, is as under:

The accused officer was working as Additional Public Prosecutor for the Court of
the learned Assistant Sessions Judge, Chirala, Prakasham District, as such, he
was a public servant at the relevant point of time.  While so, Smt. Prabhavathi,
the daughter of the de facto complainant - PW.1, Moka Rama Mohan Rao, committed   
suicide on 18-12-1996, which was six months after her marriage that took place
on 04-06-1996 with one Gollapothu Raju of Chinganajam, Prakasham District, due 
to the alleged harassment by her husband and in-laws for more dowry.  On the
complaint given by PW.1, a case in Crime No.76 of 1996 was registered by the
police of Chinaganjam Police Station against his son-in-law, Gollapothu Raju,
and 5 others, charge sheet was filed before the Magistrate and the case was
committed to the Sessions Division, Prakasham District and in turn the case was
made over to the Court of the learned Assistant Sessions Judge, Chirala, where
the accused officer was working as Additional Public Prosecutor, for trial in
S.C. No.194 of 1997.  Thereafter, the case was adjourned 4 or 5 times since 06-
11-1997.  PW.1 attended the Court for first two adjournments but the accused
officer sought adjournment on both the occasions.  PW.1 could not attend the
Court on the next adjournment day due to
ill health.  On issuance of non-bailable warrant, PW.1 attended the Court and
got the warrant cancelled.  Subsequently, the case was posted to 12-02-1998 for
examination of PW.1 and others.  In the meanwhile,
on 25-01-1998, PW.1 met the accused officer at his residence at Perala and
requested him to take interest in the case, for which the accused officer
alleged to have demanded Rs.3,000/- as illegal gratification to take more
interest in the case and to see that justice be done.
On PW.1 pleading his inability, accused officer reduced the bribe amount to
Rs.2,000/- and PW.1 unwillingly agreed to pay the same after receipt of his
salary.  The accused officer directed PW.1 to pay the bribe amount at his house
at Perala on the morning of 30-01-1998.
Then, PW.1 gave complaint to the A.C.B. officials on 26-01-1998
against the accused officer and the same was registered as Crime No.3/ACB-NPK/98  
on 28-01-1998.  Accordingly, pre and post-trap proceedings were recorded and
trapped the accused officer successfully.  The phenolphthalein test yielded
positive result.

3.  On his pleading not guilty, the accused officer was prosecuted for the
offences referred supra.
        
        4.  To substantiate its case, the prosecution has got examined PWs.1 to 6
and got marked Exs.P-1 to P-11 apart from MOs.1 to 10 on its behalf.  However,
no witnesses were examined and no documents were marked except Exs.D-1 to D-10     
on behalf of the accused officer.

5.  The trial Court found the accused officer not guilty of the offences charged
against him and accordingly acquitted him for the same by the impugned judgment.

6.  Aggrieved by the impugned judgment, the State has preferred this appeal
contending that the trial Court failed to appreciate the evidence and
circumstances of the case in the right perspective and came to an erroneous
conclusion that the prosecution failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt
though the tainted amount was recovered from the possession of the accused 
officer and the phenolphthalein test yielded positive result and the trial Court
failed to draw the presumption under Section 20 of the Act.

7.  Sri C. Padmanabha Reddy, learned senior counsel appearing for the accused
officer, supported the impugned judgment pointing out various lacunae in the
case of the prosecution and discrepancies in the evidence of the prosecution
witnesses particularly PW.1 and contended the trial Court has given valid and
cogent reasons for acquitting the accused officer and there are no merits in
this appeal, as such, the impugned judgment does not warrant interference of
this Court, and therefore, the appeal is liable to be dismissed.

8.  Now it is pertinent to refer paragraph Nos.12, 15 and 19 of the judgment of
the Hon'ble Apex Court in BABU v. STATE OF KERALA1 in the context for the sake   
of convenience and better understanding of the legal position in an appeal
preferred against a judgment of acquittal, which is as under:

" (I) Appeal against acquittal
        12.  This Court time and again has laid down the guidelines for the High
Court to interfere with the judgment and order of acquittal passed by the trial
court.  The appellate court should not ordinarily set aside a judgment of
acquittal in a case where two views are possible, though the view of the
appellate court may be the more probable one.  While dealing with a judgment of
acquittal,
the appellate court has to consider the entire evidence on record, so as to
arrive at a finding as to whether the views of the trial court were perverse or
otherwise unsustainable.  The appellate court is entitled to consider whether in
arriving at a finding of fact, the trial court had failed to take into
consideration admissible evidence and/or had taken into consideration the
evidence brought on record contrary to law.  Similarly, wrong placing of burden
of proof also be a subject-matter of scrutiny by the appellate court.  (Vide
Balak Ram v. State of U.P. [(1975) 3 SCC 219 : 1974 SCC (Cri) 837], Shambhoo  
Missir v. State of Bihar [(1990) 4 SCC 17 : 1990 SCC (Cri) 518 : AIR 1991 SC
315], Shailendra Pratap v. State of U.P. [(2003) 1 SCC 761 : 2003 SCC (Cri)
432], Narendra Singh v. State of M.P. [(2004) 10 SCC 699 : 2004 SCC (Cri)1893 :
AIR 2004 SC 3249], Budh Singh v. State of U.P. [(2006) 9 SCC 731 : (2006) 3 SCC 
(Cri) 377], State of U.P. v. Ram Veer Singh [(2007) 13 SCC 102 : (2009) 2 SCC
(Cri) 363: AIR 2007 SC 3075], S. Rama Krishna v. S. Rami Reddy [(2008) 5 SCC 535  
: (2008) 2 SCC (Cri) 645 : AIR 2008 SC 2066], Arulvelu v. State [(2009) 10 SCC
206 : (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 288,
Perla Somasekhara Reddy v. State of A.P. [(2009) 16 SCC 98 : (2010) 2 SCC (Cri)
176] and Ram Singh v. State of H.P. [(2010) 2 SCC 445 : (2010) 1 SCC (Cri)
1496].

15.  In Chandrappa v. State of Karnataka [(2007) 4 SCC 415 : (2007) 2 SCC (Cri)
325] this Court reiterated the legal position as under:(SCC p.432, para 42)
        
    "(1) An appellate court has full power to review, reappreciate and
reconsider the evidence upon which the order of acquittal is founded.

     (2)  The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 puts no limitation, restriction
or condition on exercise of such power and an appellate court on the evidence
before it may reach its own conclusion, both on questions of fact and of law.

     (3)  Various expressions, such as, 'substantial and compelling reasons',
'good and sufficient grounds', 'very strong circumstances', 'distorted
conclusions', 'glaring mistakes', etc. are not intended to curtail extensive
powers of an appellate court in an appeal against acquittal.  Such phraseologies
are more in the nature of 'flourishes of language' to emphasise the reluctance
of an appellate court to interfere with acquittal than to curtail the power of
the court to review the evidence and to come to its own conclusion.

     (4)  An appellate court, however, must bear in mind that in case of
acquittal, there is double presumption in favour of the accused.  Firstly, the
presumption of innocence is available to him under the fundamental principle of
criminal jurisprudence that every person shall be presumed to be innocent unless
he is proved guilty by a competent court of law.  Secondly, the accused having
secured his acquittal, the presumption of his innocence is further reinforced,
reaffirmed and strengthened by the trial Court.

     (5)  If two reasonable conclusions are possible on the basis of the
evidence on record, the appellate court should not disturb the finding of
acquittal recorded by the trial court."

        19.  Thus, the law on the issue can be summarised to the effect that in
exceptional cases where there are compelling circumstances, and the judgment 
under appeal is found to be perverse, the appellate court can interfere with the
order of acquittal.  The appellate court should bear in mind the presumption of
innocence of the accused and further that the trial court's acquittal bolsters
the presumption of his innocence.  Interference in a routine manner where the
other view is possible should be avoided, unless there are good reasons for
interference."


9.  In the circumstances, it cannot be said that the trial Court was wrong in
observing that the case of the prosecution suffers from lacunae since there are
infirmities and variations in the evidence of all the prosecution witnesses in
general and PW.1 in particular.

10.  For the aforesaid reasons, this Court is of the view that the impugned
judgment is not perverse and acquittal of the accused officer is neither
erroneous nor illegal, as such, the impugned judgment is not liable to be
interfered with.

11.  In the result, the Criminal Appeal is dismissed and the impugned judgment
and acquittal of the accused officer is confirmed.

?1 (2010) 9 SCC 189 
