
HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE K.G.SHANKAR       

Criminal Petition No.10584 of 2009

23-8-2012 

Krishna Reddy and 3 others 

State of Andhra Pradesh, Rep. by its Public Prosecutor,
High Court Buildings, Hyderabad and Smt. Chinta Shanti Shree 
... Respondent/ De facto Complainant

Counsel for Petitioners:  Sri Sai Gangadhar Chamarty

Counsel for the 1st Respondent: Public Prosecutor, High Court of A.P.

Counsel for the 2nd respondent: None

<Gist:

>Head Note: 

? Cases referred:
   Nil.

Order:

        The petitioners seek for the quashment of Crl.M.P.No.1815 of 2009 on the
file of the Judicial Magistrate of First Class, Bodhan, Nizamabad District.  The
2nd respondent is the de facto complainant.  She filed a case against the
petitioners as well as against her husband under Section 406 IPC as well as
under Section 6 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961.  The contention of the
learned counsel for the petitioners, who are the accused 2 to 5 in the case, is
that prima facie case is not made out against the petitioners and that the
complaint inasmuch as it relates to the petitioners is liable to be dismissed.

        2. The petitioners 1 to 4 are accused 2 to 5 in Crl.M.P.No.1815 of 2009.
The 1st petitioner is the father-in-law of the 2nd respondent.  The 2nd
petitioner is the mother-in-law of the 2nd respondent.  The 3rd petitioner is
the sister-in-law of the 2nd respondent.  The 4th petitioner is the husband of
the 3rd petitioner.

        3. Contending that the 2nd respondent lodged First Information Report in
Crime No.159 of 2008 under Section 498-A, IPC against her husband as well as 
against the petitioners 1 and 2 herein, the learned counsel for the petitioners
contended that this petition would be tantamount to double jeopardy and would be
tantamount to abuse of process of law.  The learned counsel for the petitioners
invited me to dispose of the petition on merits.

        4. I am afraid that this is not the stage at which the provisions under
Section 482 Cr.P.C deserve to be invoked.  The 2nd respondent already filed a
private complaint in Crl.M.P.No.1815 of 2009.  The relief sought by the 2nd
respondent, however, is to refer the case to the Police under Section 156 (3)
Cr.P.C.  The said petition has not been disposed of by the trial Court.
The petitioners herein have an opportunity to appear before the trial Court and
seek for the dismissal of Crl.M.P.No.1815 of 2009.

        5. There is no dispute that this Court has indeed jurisdiction under
Section 482 Cr.P.C to interfere in the matter.  However, where an alternative
remedy is available to the petitioners seeking for the dismissal of
Crl.M.P.No.1815 of 2009 on the file of the Judicial Magistrate of First Class,
Bodhan, I consider that it would not be just and proper to interfere with the
case under Section 482 Cr.P.C. 

        6. Hence, this petition is dismissed.  The petitioners are at liberty to
move the trial Court for appropriate relief in Crl.M.P.No.1815 of 2009.
___________________   
K.G.SHANKAR, J.   
23rd August, 2012.
